# 前言

BENJAMIN GRAHAM
updatedwithnewcommentarybyJAsoNZWEIG
Preface andAppendixby WARREN E.BUFFETT
An INSTANT
Wall Street
THE
Journat
“By far the best book on
Bestseller
investing ever written."
-Warren E.Buffett
INTELLIGENT
NVESTOR
REVISED
EDITION
THE DEFINITIVE BOOK
ON VALUEINVESTING
HarperBusiness Essentials
Through chances various, through all
vicissitudes, we make our way. . . .
Aeneid
THE
INTELLIGENT
INVESTOR
A bOOk OF PraCtiCal COunSel
REVISED EDITION
BENJAMIN GRAHAM
Updated with New Commentary by Jason Zweig
HarperBusiness Essentials
A HarperBusiness Book
An Imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers
To E.M.G.
Grateful acknowledgment is made for permission to reprint:
"The Superinvestors of Graham-and-Doddsville," by Warren E. Buffett,
from the Fall 1984 issue of Hermes, Magazine of Columbia Business School.
Reprinted by permission of Hermes, Magazines of Columbia Business
     s  e   
ren E. Buffett.
"Benjamin Graham," by Warren E. Buffett, from the November / December
1976 issue of Financial Analyst Journal. Reprinted by permission of Financial
Analysts Federation.
The Intelligent InvestorRevised Edition. Copyright ⊙ 1973 by Benjamin
Graham. New material: Copyright ? 2003 by Jason Zweig. All rights
reserved. Printed in the United States of America. No part of this book may
be used or reproduced in any manner whatsoever without written permis-
sion except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical articles and
reviews. For information address HarperCollins Publishers Inc., 10 East
53rd Street, New York, New York 10022.
HarperCollins books may be purchased for educational, business, or sales
promotional use. For information, please write to: Special Markets Depart-
ment, HarperCollins Publishers Inc., 10 East 53rd Street, New York, New
York 10022.
Designed by Nancy Singer Olaguera
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Graham, Benjamin, 1894-1976
The intelligent investor / Benjamin Graham.—-Rev. ed./updated with
new commentary by Jason Zweig.
P. cm.
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 0-06-055566-1
