### 7. Moderate Ratio of Price to Assets

Current price should not be more than 1% times the book value last
reported. However, a multiplier of earnings below 15 could justify a
correspondingly higher multiplier of assets. As a rule of thumb we
suggest that the product of the multiplier times the ratio of price to
book value should not exceed 22.5. (This figure corresponds to 15
times earnings and 1% times book value. It would admit an issue sell-
ing at only 9 times earnings and 2.5 times asset value, etc.)
GENERAL CoMMENTs: These requirements are set up especially
for the needs and the temperament of defensive investors. They
will eliminate the great majority of common stocks as candidates
will exclude companies that are (1) too small, (2) in relatively weak
financial condition, (3) with a deficit stigma in their ten-year
record, and (4) not having a long history of continuous dividends.
Of these tests the most severe under recent financial conditions are
those of financial strength. A considerable number of our large and
formerly strongly entrenched enterprises have weakened their cur-
rent ratio or overexpanded their debt, or both, in recent years.
Our last two criteria are exclusive in the opposite direction, by
demanding more earnings and more assets per dollar of price than
the popular issues will supply. This is by no means the standard
viewpoint of financial analysts; in fact most will insist that even
conservative investors should be prepared to pay generous prices
for stocks of the choice companies. We have expounded our con-
trary view above; it rests largely on the absence of an adequate fac.
tor of safety when too large a portion of the price must depend on
ever-increasing earnings in the future. The reader will have to
decide this important question for himself—after weighing the
arguments on both sides.
We have nonetheless opted for the inclusion of a modest
requirement of growth over the past decade. Without it the typical
company would show retrogression, at least in terms of profit per
350
TheIntelligent Investor
dollar of invested capital. There is no reason for the defensive
     o s   
The suggested maximum figure of 15 times earnings might well
 h s '   e  o i e n 
13 times. Note that in February 1972 American Tel. & Tel. sold at 11
times its three-year (and current) earnings, and Standard Oil of
California at less than 10 times latest earnings. Our basic recom-
mendation is that the stock portfolio, when acquired, should have
    a - rs  
least as high as the current high-grade bond rate. This would mean
a P/E ratio no higher than-13.3 against an AA bond yield of 7.5%.*
Application of Our Criteria to the DJIA at the End of 1970
All of our suggested criteria were satisfied by the DJIA issues at
the end of 1970, but two of them just barely. Here is a survey based
on the closing price of 1970 and the relevant figures. (The basic
data for each company are shown in Tables 14-1 and 14-2.)
