### 1946. In the Introduction we have commented on the disparity

between the strong price action and the relatively disappointing
earnings record of this industry.
* This is one of the central points of Graham's book. All investors labor
under a cruel irony: We invest in the present, but we invest for the future.
And, unfortunately, the future is almost entirely uncertain. Inflation and inter-
est rates are undependable; economic recessions come and go at random;
geopolitical upheavals like war, commodity shortages, and terrorism arrive
without warning: and the fate of individual companies and their industries
often turns out to be the opposite of what most investors expect. Therefore,
investing on the basis of projection is a fool's errand; even the forecasts of
the so-called experts are less reliable than the flip of a coin. For most peo-
from overconfidence in the quality of thieir own judgment-is the best solu-
tion. Graham expands on this concept in Chapter 20.
Stock Selection for the Defensive Investor
365
By contrast, those who emphasize protection are always espe-
cially concerned with the price of the issue at the time of study.
Their main effort is to assure themselves of a substantial margin of
indicated present value above the market price---which margin
could absorb unfavorable developments in the future. Generally
speaking, therefore, it is not so necessary for them to be enthusias-
tic over the company's long-run prospects as it is to be reasonably
confident that the enterprise will get along.
The first, or predictive, approach could also be called the quali-
tative approach, since it emphasizes prospects, management, and
other nonmeasurable, albeit highly important, factors that go
under the heading of quality. The second, or protective, approach
may be called the quantitative or statistical approach, since it
emphasizes the measurable relationships between selling price and
earnings, assets, dividends, and so forth. Incidentally, the quantita-
tive method is really an extension--into the field of common
stocks---of the viewpoint that security analysis has found to be
sound in the selection of bonds and preferred stocks for invest-
ment.
In our own attitude and professional work we were always
committed to the quantitative approach. From the first we wanted
    a d  m   s  
concrete, demonstrable terms. We were not willing to accept the
prospects and promises of the future as compensation for a lack of
sufficient value in hand. This has by no means been the standard
    s   
Would probably subscribe to the view that prospects, quality of
    ,  's  
balance sheet, and all the other cold figures.
Thus this matter of choosing the "best" stocks is at bottom a
highly controversial one. Our advice to the defensive investor is
that he let it alone. Let him emphasize diversification more than
individual selection. Incidentally, the universally accepted idea of
diversification is, in part at least, the negation of the ambitious pre-
tensions of selectivity. If one could select the best stocks unerringly.
one would only lose by diversifying. Yet within the limits of the
four most general rules of common-stock selection suggested for
the defensive investor (on pp. 114-115) there is room for a rather
considerable freedom of preference. At the worst the indulgence of
366
The Intelligent Investor
: such preferences should do no harm; beyond that, it may add
something worthwhile to the results. With the increasing impact of
technological developments on long-term corporate results, the
investor cannot leave them out of his calculations. Here, as else-
where, he must seek a mean between neglect and overemphasis.
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 14
He that resteth upon gains certain, shall hardly grow to great
riches; and he that puts all upon adventures, doth oftentimes
break and come to poverty: it is good therefore to guard adven-
tures with certainties that may uphold losses.
-Sir Francis Bacon
GeTTING Started
How should you tackle the nitty-gritty work of stock selection? Gra-
stock in the DowJones Industrial Average. Today's defensive investor
can do even better-by buying a total stock-market index fund that
holds essentially every stock worth having. A low-cost index fund is
the best tool ever created for low-maintenance stock investing-and
any effort to improve on it takes more work (and incurs more risk and
higher costs) than a truly defensive investor can justify.
Researching and selecting your own stocks is not necessary; for
most people, it is not even advisable. However, some defensive
investors do enjoy the diversion and intellectual challenge of picking
enjoy stock picking, then.nothing that Graham or I could say will dis-
suade you. In that case, instead of making a total stock market index
fund your complete portfolio, make it the foundation of your portfolio.
Once you have that foundation in place, you can experiment around
the edges with your own stock choices. Keep 9o% of your stock
money in an index fund, leaving 1o% with which to try picking your
own stocks. Only after you build that solid core should you explore.
(To learn why such broad diversification is so important, please see
the sidebar on the following page.)
367
368
Commentary on Chapter 14
Why diversify?
During the buil market of the 1990s, one of the most common
criticisms of diversification was that it lowers your potential for
high returns. After all, if you could identify the next Microsoft,
auo jeun olu! sbba snos lie 1nd oi nok jol asuas ayew 1! 1,upinom
basket?
Well, sure. As the humorist Will Rogers once said, “Don't
gamble. Take all your savings and buy some good stock and
hold it till it goes up, then sell it. If it don't go up, don't buy it"
However, as Rogers knew, 20/20 foresight is not a gift
granted to most investors. No matter how confident we feel,
e un dn o m yoois e auium no pu o rem ou sau
we buy it. Therefore, the stock you think is "the next Micro-
soft" may wel turn out to be the next MicroStrategy instead.
(That former market star went from $3,130 per share in March
2000 to $15.10 at year-end 2002, an apocalyptic loss of
99.5%).' Keeping your money spread across many stocks and
industries is the only reliable insurance against the risk of being
wrong.
But diversification doesn't just minimize your odds of being
wrong. It also maximizes your chances of being right. Over long
go up 10,000% or more. Money Magazine identified the 30
best-performing stocks over the 30 years ending in 2002-and,
even with 20/20 hindsight, the list is startlingiy unpredictable.
Rather than lots of technology or health-care stocks, it includes
Southwest Airlines, Worthington Steel, Dollar General discount
stores, and snuff-tobacco maker UST Inc.2 If you think you
would have been willing to bet big on any of those stocks back
in 1972, you are kidding yourself.
Think of it this way: ln the huge market haystack, only a few
needles ever go on to generate truly gigantic gains. The more of
the haystack you own, the higher the odds go that you will end
up finding at least one of those needles. By owning the entire
haystack (ideally through an index fund that tracks the total U.S.
stock market) you can be sure to find every needle, thus captur-
ing the returns of all the superstocks. Especially if you are a
Commentary on Chapter 14
369
defensive investor, why look for the needles when you can own
the whole haystack?
the next Microsoft in early 2000; its stock had gained 566.7% in 1999, and its
chairman, Michael Saylor, declared that "our future today is better than it was
18 months ago" The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission later accused
MicroStrategy of accounting fraud, and Saylor paid an $8.3 million fine to set-
tle the charges.
2 Jon Birger, "The 30 Best Stocks, Money, Fall 2002, pp. 88-95.
TestinG, testiNG
Let's briefly update Graham's criteria for stock selection.
Adequate size. Nowadays, "to exclude small companies" most
defensive investors should steer clear of stocks with a total market value
of less than $2 billion. In early 2003, that still left you with 437 of the
companies in the Standard & Poor's 5o0-stock index to choose from.
However, today's defensive investors-unlike those in Graham's day~-
can conveniently own small companies by buying a mutual fund special-
izing in small stocks. Again, an index fund like Vanguard Small-Cap Index
is the first choice, although active funds are available at reasonable cost
from such firms as Ariel, T. Rowe Price, Royce, and Third Avenue.
Strong financial condition. According to market strategists Steve
Galbraith and Jay Lasus of Morgan Stanley, at the beginning of 2003
about 120 of the companies in the S & P 500 index met Graham's
test of a 2-to-1 current ratio. With current assets at least twice their
current liabilities, these firms had a sizeable cushion of working capital
that-on average--should sustain them through hard times.
Wall Street has always abounded in bitter ironies, and the bursting
of the growth-stock bubble has created a do0zy: In 1999 and 2000,
high-tech, bio-tech, and telecommunications stocks were supposed to
provide "aggressive growth" and ended up giving most of their
investors aggressive shrinkage instead. But, by early 2003, the wheel
had come full circle, and many of those aggressive growth stocks had
become financially conservative-loaded with working capital, rich in
cash, and often debt-free. This table provides a sampler:
370
Commentary on Chapter 14
FIGURE 14-1
Everything New Is Old Again
Ratio of
Ratio of
Current
Long-Term
Assets to
Debt to
Current
Current
Current
Long-Term
Working
Company
Assets
Liabilities Liabilities
Debt
Capital
Applied Micro
Circuits
1091.2
61.9
17.6
0
none
Linear
Technology
1736.4
148.1
11.7
0
none
QLogic Corp.
713.1
69.6
10.2
0
none
Analog Devices
3711.1
467.3
7.9
1274.5
0.39
Qualcomm Inc.
4368.5
654.9
6.7
156.9
0.04
Maxim Integrated
Products
1390.5
212.3
6.5
0
none
Applied Materials
7878.7
1298.4
6.1
573.9
0.09
Tellabs Inc.
1533.6
257.3
6.0
0.5
0.0004
Scientific-Atlanta
1259.8
252.4
5.0
8.8
0.01
Altera Corp.
1176.2
240.5
4.9
0
none
Xilinx Inc.
1108.8
228.1
4.9
0
none
American Power
Conversion
1276.3
277.4
4.6
0
none
Chiron Corp.
1393.8
306.7.
4.5
414.9
0.38
Biogen Inc.
1194.7
265.4
4.5
39
0.04
Novellus Systems
1633.9
381.6
4.3
0
none
Amgen Inc.
6403.5
1529.2
4.2
3039.7
0.62
LSI Logic Corp.
1626.1
397.8
4.1
1287.1
1.05
Rowan Cos.
469.9
116.0
4.1
494.8
1.40
Biomet Inc.
1000.0
248.6
4.0
0
none
Siebel Systems
2588.4
646.5
4.0
315.6
0.16
All figures in millions of dollars from latest available financial statements as of
12/31/02. Working capital is current assets minus current liabilities.
Long-term debt includes preferred stock, excludes deferred tax liabilities.
Sources: Morgan Stanley; Baseline; EDGAR database at www.sec.gov.
In 1999, most of these companies were among the hottest of the market's dar-
lings, offering the promise of high potential growth. By early 2003, they offered
hard evidence of true value.
Commentary on Chapter 14
371
The lesson here is not that these stocks were "a sure thing"' or that
you should rush out and buy everything (or anything) in this table.
Instead, you should realize that a defensive investor can always pros-
per by looking patiently and calmly through the wreckage of a bear
market. Graham's criterion of financial strength still works: If you build
a diversified basket of stocks whose current assets are at least double
their current liabilities, and whose long-term debt does not exceed
working capital, you should end up with a group of conservatively
financed companies with plenty of staying power. The best values
today are often found in the stocks that were once hot and have since
gone cold. Throughout history, such stocks have often provided the
margin of safety that a defensive investor demands.
Earnings stability. According to Morgan Stanley, 86% of all the
companies in the S & P 500 index have had positive earnings in every
year from 1993 through 2002. So Graham's insistence on "some
earnings for the common stock in each of the past ten years" remains
a valid test-tough enough to eliminate chronic losers, but not so
Dividend record. As of early 2003, according to Standard &
Poor's, 354 companies in the S & P 500 (or 71% of the total) paid a
dividend. No fewer than 255 companies have paid a dividend for at
least 20 years in a row. And, according to S & P, 57 companies in the
index have raised their dividends for at least 25 consecutive years.
That's no guarantee that they will do so forever, but it's a comfort-
ing sign.
Earnings growth. How many companies in the S & P 500
increased their earnings per share by "at least one third" as Graham
requires, over the 10 years ending in 2002? (We'll average each
company's earnings from 1991 through 1993, and then determine
33% higher.) According to Morgan Stanley, 264 companies in the
S & P 5o0 met that test. But here, it seems, Graham set a very low
hurdle; 33% cumulative growth over a decade is less than a 3% aver-
age annual increase. Cumulative growth in earnings per share of at
least 50%-or a 4% average annual rise-is a bit less conservative. No
1 By the time you read this, much will already have changed since year-end
2002.
372
Commentary on Chapter 14
FIGURE 14-2 Steady Eddies
These companies have paid higher dividends with each passing year with no exception.
Number of
annual
Cash
dividend
dividends
increases in
paid each
the past
Company
Sector
year since .. .
40 years
3M Co
Industrials
1916
40
Abbott Laboratories
Health Care
1926
35
ALLTEL Corp
Telecomm. Services
1961
37
Altria Group
(formerly Philip Morris)
Consumer Staples
1928
36
AmSouth Bancorp
Financials
1943
34
Anheuser-Busch Cos
Consumer Staples
1932
39
Archer-Daniels-Midland
Consumer Staples
1927
32
Automatic Data Proc
Industrials
1974
29
Avery Dennison Corp
Industrials
1964
36
Bank of America
Financials
1903
36
Bard (C. R.)
Health Care
1960
36
Becton, Dickinson
Health Care
1926
38
CenturyTel Inc
Telecomm. Services
1974
29
Chubb Corp
Financials
1902
28
Clorox Co
Consumer Staples
1968
30
Coca-Cola Co
Consumer Staples
1893
40
Comerica Inc
Financials
1936
39
ConAgra Foods
Consumer Staples
1976
32
Consolidated Edison
Utilities
1885
31
Donnelley(R. R.) & Sons
Industrials
1911
36
Dover Corp
Industrials
1947
37
Emerson Electric
Industrials
1947
40
Family Dollar Stores
Consumer Discretionary
1976
27
First Tenn Natl .
Financials
1895
31
Gannett Co
Consumer Discretionary
1929
35
General Electric
Industrials
1899
35
Grainger (W. W.)
Industrials
1965
33
Heinz (H. J.)
Consumer Staples
1911
38
Commentary on Chapter 14
373
Household Intl.
Financials
1926
40
Jefferson-Pilot
Financials
1913
36
Johnson & Johnson
Health Care
1944
40
Johnson Controls
Consumer Discretionary
1887
29
KeyCorp
Financials
1963
36
Kimberly-Clark
Consumer Staples
1935
34
Leggett & Platt
Consumer Discretionary
1939
33
Lilly (Eli)
Health Care
1885
38
Lowe's Cos.
Consumer Discretionary
1961
40
May Dept Stores
Consumer Discretionary
1911
31
McDonald's Corp.
Consumer Discretionary
1976
27
McGraw-Hill Cos.
Consumer Discretionary
1937
35
Merck & Co
Health Care
1935
38
Nucor Corp.
Materials
1973
30
PepsiCo Inc.
Consumer Staples
1952
35
Pfizer, Inc.
Health Care
1901
39
PPG Indus.
Materials
1899
37
Procter & Gamble
Consumer Staples
1891
40
Regions Financial
Financials
1968
32
Rohm & Haas
Materials
1927
38
Sigma-Aldrich
Materials
1970
28
Stanley Works
Consumer Discretionary
1877
37
Supervalu Inc.
Consumer Staples
1936
36
Target Corp.
Consumer Discretionary
1965
34
TECO Energy
Utilities
1900
40
U.S. Bancorp
Financials
1999
35
VF Corp.
Consumer Discretionary
1941
35
Wal-Mart Stores
Consumer Discretionary
1973
29
Walgreen Co.
Consumer Staples
1933
31 .
Source: Standard & Poor's Corp.
Data as 0f 12/31/2002.
374
Commentary on Chapter 14
fewer than 245 companies in the S & P 500 index met that criterion as
of early 2003, leaving the defensive investor an ample list to choose
from. (lf you double the cumulative growth hurdle to 100%, or 7%
average annual growth, then 198 companies make the cutoff.)
Moderate P/E ratio. Graham recommends limiting yourself to
stocks whose current price is no more than 15 times average earnings
over the past three years. Incredibly, the prevailing practice on Wall
Street today is to value stocks by dividing their current price by some-
thing called "next year's earnings" That gives what is sometimes
called “the forward P/E ratio: But it's nonsensical to derive a
price/earnings ratio by dividing the known current price by unknown
future earnings. Over the long run, money manager David Dreman has
shown, 59% of Wall Street's "consensus" earnings forecasts miss the
mark by a mortifyingly wide margin-either underestimating or overesti-
mating the actual reported earnings by at least 15%.2 Investing your
money on the basis of what these myopic soothsayers predict for the
ue pe aha-snq ayi dn pioy oi bujaaunjon se Kysu se s! reak buiwo
archery tournament for the legally blind. Instead, calculate a stock's
price/earnings ratio yourself, using Graham's formula of current price
divided by average earnings over the past three years.?
As of early 2003, how many stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500
index were valued at no more than 15 times their average earnings of
2000 through 2002? According to Morgan Stanley, a generous total
of 185 companies passed Graham's test.
Moderate price-to-book ratio. Graham recommends a "ratio of
price to assets" (or price-to-book-value ratio) of no more than 1.5. In
recent years, an increasing proportion of the value of companies has
come from intangible assets like franchises, brand names, and patents
and trademarks. Since these factors (along with goodwill from. acqui-
sitions) are excluded from the standard definition of book value, most
companies today are priced at higher price-to-book multiples than in
Graham's day. According to Morgan Stanley, 123 of the companies in
the S & P 500 (or one in four) are priced below 1.5 times book value.
2 David Dreman, "Bubbles and the Role of Analysts' Forecasts," The Journa!
of Psychology and Financial Markets, vol. 3, no. 1 (2002), pp. 4-14.
3 You can caiculate this ratio by hand from a company's annual reports or
obtain the data at websites like www.morningstar.com or http://finance.
yahoo.com.
Commentary on Chapter 14
375
All told, 273 companies (or 55%o of the index) have price-to-book
ratios of less than 2.5.
What about Graham's suggestion that you multiply the P/E ratio by
the price-to-book ratio and see whether the resulting number is below
22.5? Based on data from Morgan Stanley, at least 142 stocks in the
S & P 500 couid pass that test as of early 2003, including Dana
Corp., Electronic Data Systems, Sun Microsystems, and Washington
Mutual. So Graham's "blended multiplier" still works as an initial
screen to identify reasonably-priced stocks.
DUe DILIGENCE
No matter how defensive an investor you are--in Graham's sense of
wishing to minimize the work you put into picking stocks-there are a
couple of steps you cannot afford to skip:
Do your homework. Through the EDGAR database at www.sec.
gov, you get instant access to a company's annual and quarterly
reports, along with the proxy statement that discloses the managers'
compensation, ownership, and potential conflicts of interest. Read at
least five years' worth.4
Check out the neighborhood. Websites like http://quicktake.
readily tell you what percentage of a company's shares are owned by
institutions. Anything over 6o% suggests that a stock is scarcely
undiscovered and probably "overowned!" (When big institutions sell,
they tend to move in lockstep, with disastrous results for the stock.
Imagine all the Radio City Rockettes toppling off the front edge of the
stage at once and you get the idea.) Those websites will also tell you
who the largest owners of the stock are. lf they are money-
management firms that invest in a style similar to your own, that's a
good sign.
4 For more on what to look for, see the commentary on Chapters 11, 12, and
