### 5. Price: Less than 120% net tangible assets.

The earnings figures in the Guide were generally for those end-.
ing September 30, 1970, and thus do not include what may be a bad
quarter at the end of that year. But an intelligent investor can't ask
for the moon-at least not to start with. Note also that we set no
 sn  s       
afford enough safety if bought carefully and on a group basis.
When we have applied the five additional criteria our list of 20
candidates is reduced to only five. Let us continue our search until
the first 450 issues in the Guide have yielded us a little "portfolio"
of 15 stocks meeting our six requirements. (They are set forth in
Table 15-1, together with some relevant data.) The group, of
course, is presented for illustration only, and would not necessarily
have been chosen by our inquiring investor.
The fact is that the user of our method would have had a much
wider choice. If our winnowing approach had been applied to all
4,500 companies in the Stock Guide, and if the ratio for the first
tenth had held good throughout, we would end up with about 150
companies meeting all six of our criteria of selection. The enterpris-
ing investor would then be able to follow his judgment--or his
partialities and prejudices-in making a third selection of, say, one
out of five in this ample list.
The Stock Guide material includes
s "Earnings and Dividend
Rankings," which are based on stability and growth of these fac-
tors for the past eight years. (Thus price attractiveness does not
enter here.) We include the S & P rankings in our Table 15-1. Ten of
the 15 issues are ranked B+ (= average) and one (American Maize)
is given the "high" rating of A. If our enterprising investor wanted
to add a seventh mechanical criterion to his choice, by considering
only issues ranked by Standard & Poor's as average or better in
quality, he might still have about 100 such issues to choose from.
One might say that a group of issues, of at least average quality,
meeting criteria of financial condition as well, purchasable at a low
multiplier of current earnings and below asset value, should offer
good promise of satisfactory investment results.
Stock Selection for the Enterprising Investor
387
TABLE 15-1
A Sample Portfolio of Low-Multiplier Industrial
Stocks
(The First Fifteen Issues in the Stock Guide at December 31, 1971, Meeting
Six Requirements)
Earned
Price
Per Share
Price
Dec.
Last
Book
S&P
Feb.
1970
12 Months
Value
Ranking
1972
Aberdeen Mfg
10%
$1.25
$9.33
B
13%
Alba-Waldensian
6%
.68
9.06
B+
6%
Albert's Inc.
8%
1.00
8.48
n.ra
14
Allied Mills
24%
2.68
24.38
B+
18%
Am. Maize Prod.
%6
1.03
10.68
A
16%
Am. Rubber & Plastics
13%
1.58
15.06
B
15
Am. Smelt. & Ref.
27%
3.69
25.30
B+
23%
Anaconda
21:
4.19
54.28
B+
19
Anderson Clayton
37%
4.52
65.74
B+
52%
Archer-Daniels-Mid.
32%
3.51
31.35
B+
32%
Bagdad Copper
22
2.69.
18.54
n.ra
32
D. H. Baldwin
28
3.21
28.60
+8
50
Big Bear Stores
18%
2.71
20.57
B+
39%
Binks Mfg.
15%
1.83
14.41
B+
21%
Bluefield Supply
22%
2.59
28.66
n.r.a
39%b
* n.r. = not ranked.
b Adjusted for stock split.
Single Criteria for Choosing Common Stocks
An inquiring reader might well ask whether the choice of a bet-
ter than average portfolio could be made a simpler affair than we
have just outlined. Could a single plausible criterion be used to
good advantage---such as a low price/earnings ratio, or a high div-
idend return, or a large asset value? The two methods of this sort
that we have found to give quite consistently good results in the
 s         
important companies (such as the DJIA list), and (b) the choice of a
diversified group of stocks selling under their net-current-asset
388
The Intelligent Investor
value (or working-capital value). We have already pointed out that
the low-multiplier criterion applied to the DJIA at the end of 1968
worked out badly when the results are measured to mid-1971. The
P         
working-capital value has no such bad mark against it; the draw-
p sdo n g dn p  aq s r 
most of the past decade.
What about other bases of choice? In writing this book we have
made a series of "experiments," each based on a single, fairly obvi-
ous criterion. The data used would be readily found in the Stan-
dard & Poor's Stock Guide. In all cases a 30-stock portfolio was
assumed to have been acquired at the 1968 closing prices and then
  e  s  e    e
following, as applied to otherwise random choices: (1) A low multi-
plier of recent earnings (not confined to DJIA issues). (2) A high
dividend return. (3) A very long dividend record. (4) A very large
enterprise, as measured by number of outstanding shares. (5) A
strong financial position. (6) A low price in dollars per share. (7) A
low price in relation to the previous high price. (8) A high quality-
ranking by Standard & Poor's.
It will be noted that the Stock Guide has at least one column relat-
ing to each of the above criteria. This indicates the publisher's
belief that each is of importance in analyzing and choosing com-
mon stocks. (As we pointed out above, we should like to see
another figure added: the net-asset-value per share.)
 soa o  sa     
relates to the performance of stocks bought at random. We have
tested this performance for three 30-stock portfolios, each made up
of issues found on the first line of the December 31, 1968, Stock
Guide and also found in the issue for August 31, 1971. Between
these two dates the S & P composite was practically unchanged,
and the DJIA lost about 5%. But our 90 randomly chosen issues
declined an average of 22%, not counting 19 issues that were
dropped from the Guide and probably showed larger losses. These
comparative results undoubtedly reflect the tendency of smaller
issues of inferior quality to be relatively overvalued in bull mar-
kets, and not only to suffer more serious declines than the stronger
issues in the ensuing price collapse, but also to delay their full
Stock Selection for the Enterprising Investo1
389
investor is, of course, to avoid second-quality issues in making up
a portfolio, unless--for the enterprising investor--they are demon-
strable bargains.
Other results gleaned from our portfolio studies may be sum-
marized as follows:
Only three of the groups studied showed up better than the
S & P composite (and hence better than the DJIA), viz: (1) Industri-
als with the highest quality ranking (A+). These advanced 9%% in
the period against a. decline of 2.4% for the S & P industrials, and
5.6% for the DJIA. (However, the ten public-utility issues rated A+
declined 18% against a decline of 14% for the 55-stock S & P public-
utility index.) It is worth remarking that the S & P rankings showed
up very well in this single test. In every case a portfolio based on a
higher ranking did better than a lower-ranking portfolio. (2) Com-
panies with more than 50 million shares outstanding showed no
change on the whole, as against a small decline for the indexes. (3)
( a) s  d  e  s ss  s
showed a slight (1%) composite advance.
Among our various tests we made one based on book value, a
figure not given in the Stock Guide. Here we found—-contrary to our
investment philosophythat companies that combined major size
with a large good-will component in their market price did very
Well as a whole in the 2%-year holding period. (By "good-will com-
ponent" we mean the part of the price that exceeds the book
value.)* Our list of "good-will giants" was made up of 30 issues,
each of which had a good-will component of over a billion dollars,
representing more than half of its market price. The total market
value of these good-will items at the end of 1968 was more than
$120 billions! Despite these optimistic market valuations the group
as a whole showed a price advance per share of 15% between
December 1968 and August 1971, and acquitted itself best among
the 20-odd lists studied.
A fact like this must not be ignored in a work on investment
* In Graham's terms, a large amount of goodwill can result from two causes:
a corporation can acquire other companies for substantially more than the
value of their assets, or its own stock can ,trade for substantially more than
its book value.
390
TheIntelligent Investor
policies. It is clear that, at the least, a considerable momentum is
attached to those companies that combine the virtues of great size,
an excellent past record of earnings, the public's expectation of
continued earnings growth in the future, and strong market action
our quantitative standards the underlying market momentum may
well carry such issues along more or less indefinitely. (Naturally
this assumption does not apply to every individual issue in the cat-
egory. For example, the indisputable good-will leader, IBM, moved
down from 315 to 304 in the 30-month period.) It is difficult to
judge to what extent the superior market action shown is due to
"true' or objective investment merits and to what extent to long-
established popularity. No doubt both factors are important here.
Clearly, both the long-term and the recent market action of the
good-will giants would recommend them for a diversified portfo-
lio of common stocks. Our own preference, however, remains for
other types that show a combination of favorable investment fac-
tors, including asset values of at least two-thirds the market price.
The tests using other criteria indicate in general that random
lists based on a single favorable factor did better than random lists
  ss  sa s   
smaller decline in this period than high-multiplier issues, and
ing dividends at the end of 1968. To that extent the results support
Our recommendation that the issues selected meet a combination of
quantitative or tangible criteria.
Finally we should comment on the much poorer showing made
by our lists as a whole as compared with the price record of the
S & P composite. The latter is weighted by the size of each enter-
prise, whereas our tests are based on taking one share of each com-
pany. Evidently the larger emphasis given to giant enterprises by
the S & P method made a significant difference in the results, and
  s  d  e    s
"run-of-the-mine" companies.
Bargain Issues, or Net-Current-Asset Stocks
In the tests discussed above we did not include the results of buy-
ing 30 issues at a price less than their net-current-asset value. The rea-
son was that only a handful, at most, of such issues would have been
Stock Selection for the Enterprising Investor
391
found in the Stock Guide at the end of 1968. But the picture changed in
the 1970 decline, and at the low prices of that year a goodly number
of common stocks could have been bought at below their working-
capital value. It always seemed, and still seems, ridiculously simple
to say that if one can acquire a diversified group of common stocks at
a price less than the applicable net current assets alone-—-after deduct-
ing all prior claims, and counting as zero the fixed and other assets---
the results should be quite satisfactory. They were so, in our
experience, for more than 30 years-—say, between 1923 and 1957--
excluding a time of real.trial in.1930-1932.
Has this approach any relevance at the beginning of 1971? Our
answer would be a qualified "yes." A quick runover of the Stock
Guide would have uncovered some 50 or more issues that appeared
to be obtainable at or below net-current-asset value. As might be
expected a good many of these had been doing badly in the diffi-
cult year 1970. If we eliminated those which had reported net
losses in the last 12-month period we would be still left with
enough issues to make up a diversified list.
We have included in Table 15-2 some data on five issues that
sold at less than their working-capital value* at their low prices of
TABLE 15-2 S
Stocks of Prominent Companies Selling at or Below
Net-Current-Asset Value in 1970
Net-Current-
Book
Earned
High Price
1970
Asset Value
Value
Per Share,
Current
Before
Company
Price
Per Share
Per Share
1970
Dividend
1970
Cone Mills
13
$18
$39.3
$1.51
$1.00
41%
Jantzen Inc.
11%
12
16.3
1.27
.60
37
National Presto
21%
27
31.7
6.15
1.00
45
Parker Pen
9%4
9%
16.6
1.62
.60
31%
West Point
Pepperell
16%
20%
39.4
1.82
1.50
64
* Technically, the working-capital value of a stock is the current assets per
share, minus the current liabilities per share, divided by the number of
value, or the per-share value of current assets minus tota/ liabilities.
392
The Intelligent Investor
