### 2. Calculation of P/E Ratio to Allow for Warrant Dilution

Before
After Warrant Dilution
(1970 earnings)
Warrant
Company's
Our
A. Before Special Items.
Dilution
Calculation
Calculation
Earmed per share
$ 2.33
$ 1.60
$ 2.33
Price of common
24.50
24.50
43.30 (adj.)
P/E ratio
10.5x
15.3x
18.5x
B. After Special Items.
Earned per share
$
.90
$ 1.33
06$
Price of common
24.50
24.50
43.30 (adj.)
P/E ratio
27.2x
18.4x
48.1x
Note that, after special charges, the effect of the company's calculation is to
increase the earnings per share and reduce the P/E ratio. This is manifestly
absurd. By our suggested method the effect of the dilution is to increase the P/E
ratio substantially, as it should be.
equally well to one invention or another-such as the following (in
Bayard Taylor's translation):
FAusr: Imagination in its highest flight
Exerts itself but cannot grasp it quite.
MEPHIsTOPHELEs (the inventor): If one needs coin the brokers ready
stanid.
THE FooL (finally): The magic paper . . . !
Convertible Issues and Warrants
417
Practical Postscript
The crime of the warrants is in "having been born."* Once born
they function as other security forms, and offer chances of profit as
well as of loss. Nearly all the newer warrants run for a limited
time -generally between five and ten years. The older warrants
Were often perpetual, and they were likely to have fascinating price
histories over the years.
ExAMPLE: The record books will show that Tri-Continental Corp.
warrants, which date from 1929, sold at a negligible 1/32 of a dol-
lar each in the depth of the depression. From that lowly estate their
price rose to a magnificent 75% in 1969, an astronomical advance of
some 242,000%. (The warrants then sold considerably higher than
the shares themselves; this is the kind of thing that occurs on Wall
Street through technical developments, such as stock splits.) A
recent example is supplied by Ling-Temco-Vought warrants, which
in the first half of 1971 advanced from 2% to 12%and then fell
back to 4.
No doubt shrewd operations can be carried on in warrants from
time to time, but this is too technical a matter for discussion here.
We might say tl
that warrants tend to sell relatively higher than the
corresponding market components related to the conversion privi-
lege of bonds or preferred stocks. To that extent there is a valid
argument for selling bonds with warrants attached rather than cre-
ating an equivalent dilution factor by a convertible issue. If the
warrant total is relatively small there is no point in taking its theo-
retical aspect too seriously; if the warrant issue is large relative to
the outstanding stock, that would probably indicate that the com-
additional common stock instead. Thus the main objective of our
attack on warrants as a financial mechanism is not to condemn
their use in connection with moderate-size bond issues, but to
- ,-d,  go  na n ss 
strosities of this genre.
* Graham, an enthusiastic reader of Spanish literature, is paraphrasing a line
from the play Life /s a Dream by Pedro Calderon de la Barca (1600-1681):
"The greatest crime of man is having been born:"
COMMENTARY 0N CHAPTER 16
That which thou sowest is not quickened, except it die.
-I. Corinthians, XV:36.
The zeal of the convert
Although convertible bonds are called "bonds" they behave like
stocks, work like options, and are cloaked in obscurity.
If you own a convertibie, you also hold an option: You can either
keep the bond and continue to earn interest on it, or you can
exchange it for common stock of the issuing company at a predeter-
mined ratio. (An option gives its owner the right to buy or sell another
security at a given price within a specific period of time.) Because they
  s   s s  a s
than most comparable bonds. On the other hand, if a company's stock
price soars, a convertible bond exchangeable into that stock will per-
form much better than a conventional bond. (Conversely, the typicai
convertible-with its lower interest rate-will fare worse in a falling
bond market.)1
1 As a brief example of how convertible bonds work in practice, consider the
4.75% convertible subordinated notes issued by DoubleClick Inc. in 1999.
t   e  e  d   o  y
shares of the company's common stock, a "conversion ratio" of 24.24. As of
year-end 2002, DoubleClick's stock was priced at $5.66 a share, giving
each bond a "conversion value" of $137.20 ($5.66 × 24.24). Yet the bonds
traded roughly six times higher, at $881.30-creating a "conversion pre-
mium," or excess over their conversion value, of 542%o. lf you bought at that
pied nol) buo Aan sem :pouad yoeqred, do taw uaa-yeaa, snor aod
roughly $750 more than the conversion value of the bond, so it will take
418
Commentary on Chapter 16
419
From 1957 through 2002, according to Ibbotson Associates, con-
vertible bonds earned an annual average return of 8.3%-only two per-
centage points below the total return on stocks, but with steadier
prices and shalower losses.2 More income, less risk than stocks: No
wonder Wall Street's salespeople often describe convertibles as a
"best of both worlds" investment. But the intelligent investor will
quickly realize that convertibles offer less income and more risk than
most other bonds. So they could, by the same logic and with equal
justice, be called a "worst of both worlds" investment. Which side you
come down on depends on how you use them.
In truth, convertibles act more like stocks than bonds. The return on
convertibles is about 83%o correlated to the Standard & Poor's 500-
stock index-but only about 30% correlated to the performance of
Treasury bonds. Thus, "converts" zig when most bonds zag. For con-
servative investors with most or all of their assets in bonds, adding a
diversified bundle of converts is a sensible way to seek stock-like
returns without having to take the scary step of investing in stocks
directly. You could call convertible bonds "stocks for chickens."
As convertibles expert F. Barry Nelson of Advent Capital Manage-
ment points out, this roughly $200 billion market has blossomed since
Graham's day. Most converts are now medium-term, in the seven-to-
10-year range; roughly half are investment-grade; and many issues
now carry some call protection (an assurance against early redemp-
tion). All these factors make them less risky than they used to be.?
version premium.) Since each DoubleClick bond is convertible to just over
24 common shares, the stock will have to rise from $5.66 to more than $36
if conversion is to become a practical option before the bonds mature in
