### 2006. Such a stock return is not impossible, but it borders on the miracu-

lous. The cash yield on this particular bond scarcely seems adequate, given
the low probability of conversion.
2 Like many of the track records commonly cited on Wall Street, this one is
hypothetical. It indicates the return you would have earned in an imagin-
Aue apnjou! lou saop ll 'salquaauoo jolew le paumo jeyl pun, xapu! Ae
management fees or trading costs (which are substantial for convertible
securities). In the real world, your returns would have been roughly two per-
centage points lower.
* However, most convertible bonds remain junior to other long-term debt
and bank loans-so, in a bankruptcy, convertible holders do not have prior
420
Commentary on Chapter 16
It's expensive to trade small lots of convertible bonds, and diversifi-
cation is impractical unless you have well over $100,oo0 to invest in
  s   s    
venient recourse of buying a low-cost convertible bond fund. Fidelity
Ageoso ssuadxa jenuue ym spuny jnnu saho penbues pue
under 1%, while several closed-end funds are also available at a rea-
sonable cost (and, occasionally, at discounts to net asset value)."
On Wall Street, cuteness and complexity go hand-in-hand-and
convertibles are no exception. Among the newer varieties are a jumble
of securities with acronymic nicknames like LYONS, ELKS, EYES,
PERCS, MIPS, CHIPS, and YEELDS. These intricate securities put a
"floor" under your potentiai losses, but also cap your potential profits
and offen compel you to convert into common stock on a fixed date.
Like most investments that purport to ensure against loss (see sidebar
on p. 421), these things are generally more trouble than they are
jo auo buing Aq lou sson isuiebe jiasnof plalys jsag ueo noy 'yom
a n       s
portfolio across cash, bonds, and U.S. and foreign stocks.
claim to the company's assets. And, while they are not nearly as dicey as
high-yield “junk" bonds, many converts are still issued by companies with
less than sterling credit ratings. Finally, a large portion of the convertible
market is held by hedge funds, whose rapid-fire trading can increase the
volatility.of prices.
4 For more detail, see www.fidelity.com, www.vanguard.com, and www.
morningstar.com. The intelligent investor will never buy a convertible bond
fund with annual operating expenses exceeding 1.0%.
Commentary on Chapter 16
421
Uncovering covered calls
ue dn bnp h! 'oog yhnoui Aem sh! pamejo paxew seaq ayi sy
old fad: writing covered call options. (A recent Google search
on "covered call writing" turned up more than 2,600 hits.) What
are covered calls, and how do they work? Imagine that you buy
100 shares of lxnay Corp. at $95 apiece. You then sell (or
"write") a call option on your shares. In exchange, you get a
cash payment known as a "call premium:" (Let's say it's $10 per
share.) The buyer of the option, meanwhile, has the contractual
right to buy your Ixnay shares at a mutually agreed-upon price-
say, $10o. You get to keep the stock so long as it stays below
$100, and you earn a fat $1,000 in premium income, which will
cushion the fall if Ixnay's stock crashes.
Less risk, more income. What's not to like?
Well, now imagine that Ixnay's stock price jumps overnight to
$110. Then your option buyer will exercise his rights, yanking
your shares away for $100 apiece. You've still got your $1,000
in income, but he's got your Ixnay-and the more it goes up, the
harder you will kick yourseif.'
Since the potential gain on a stock is unlimited, while no loss
can exceed 10o%, the only person you will enrich with this strat-.
egy is your broker. You've put a floor under your losses, but
you've also slapped a ceiling over your gains. For individual
investors, covering your downside is never worth surrendering
most of your upside.
1 Alternatively, you could buy back the call option, but you would have to take
a loss on it-and options can have even higher trading costs than stocks.
