### 7. Along the way there were some strange transactions with

peculiar accounting results.1 Details are too complicated to go into
here.
CoNCLUsioN: Whether better management could have saved the
Penn Central bankruptcy may be arguable. But there is no doubt
whatever that no bonds and no shares of the Penn Central system
should have remained after 1968 at the latest in any securities
account watched over by competent security analysts, fund man-
agers, trust officers, or investment counsel. Moral: Security analysts
should do their elementary jobs before they study stock-market
movements, gaze into crystal balls, make elaborate mathematical
calculations, or go on all-expense-paid field trips.t
Ling-Temco-Vought Inc.
This is a story of head-over-heels expansion and head-over-
heels debt, ending up in terrific losses and a host of financial prob-
lems. As usually
happens in such cases, a fair-haired boy, or
 go un a oq ro asusn  sem , sn no,
great empire and its ignominious downfall; but there is plenty of
blame to be accorded others as well.t
* A railroad's "transportation ratio" (now more commonly called its operating
ratio) measures the expenses of running its trains divided by the railroad's
even a ratio of 7o%o would be considered excellent.
+ Today, Penn :Central is a faded memory. Iin 1976, it was absorbed into
Consolidated Rail Corp. (Conrail), a federally-funded holding company
that bailed out several failed railroads. Conrail sold shares to the public in
1987 and, in 1997, was taken over jointly by CSX Corp. and Norfolk South-
ern Corp.
+ Ling-Temco-Vought lnc. was founded in 1955 by James Joseph Ling, an
electrical contractor who sold his first $1 million worth of shares to the pub-
426
The Intelligent Investor
The rise and fall of Ling-Temco-Vought can be summarized by
setting forth condensed income accounts and balance-sheet items
for five years between 1958 and 1970. This is done in Table 17-1.
The first column shows the company's modest beginnings in 1958,
when its sales were only $7 million. The next gives
figures for 1960;
the enterprise had grown twentyfold in only
y two years, but it was
still comparatively small. Then came the heyday years to 1967 and
1968, in which sales again grew twentyfold to $2.8 billion with the
debt figure expanding from $44 million to an awesome $1,653 mil-
lion. In 1969 came new acquisitions, a further huge increase in debt
(to a total of $1,865 million!), and the beginning of serious trouble.
A large loss, after extraordinary items, was reported for the year;
the stock price declined from its 1967 high of 169% to a low of 24;
the young genius was superseded as the head of the company. The
1970 results were even more dreadful. The enterprise reported a
final net loss of close to $70 million; the stock fell away to a low
price of 7%, and its largest bond issue was quoted at one time at a
pitiable 15 cents on the dollar. The company's expansion policy
was  sharply
y reversed, various of its important interests were
placed on the market, and some headway was made in reducing its
mountainous obligations.
The figures in our table speak so eloquently that few comments
are called for. But here are some:
lic by becoming his own investment banker, hawking prospectuses from a
booth set up at the Texas State Fair. His success at that led him to acquire
dozens of different companies, almost always using LTV's stock to pay for
them. The more companies LTV acquired, the higher its stock went; the
higher its stock went, the more companies it could afford to acquire. By
corporations. And then, as Graham shows, the whole house of cards came
crashing down. (LTV Corp., now exclusively a steelmaker, ended up seeking
bankruptcy protection in late 2ooo.) Companies that grow primarily through
acquisitions are called "serial acquirers"-and the similarity to the term
"serial killers" is no accident. As the case of LTV demonstrates, serial acquir-
ers nearly always leave financial death and destruction in their wake.
Investors who understood this lesson of Graham's wouid have avoided such
darlings of the 1990s as Conseco, Tyco, and WorldCom.
(× 89'0)
1.45 x
0.13 x
1970
def. 17.18
def. 69.0*
$374.0
88.0
128.3
4.9
dr. 18.8
dr. 69.6
dr. 71.3
2,582.0
301.3
1,394.6
(1.02 x)
1.52 x
0.17 x
97%4-24%
def. 10.59
def. 12.0*
1969
$3,750.0
124.4
122.6
cr. 15.2
dr. 40.6
dr. 38.3
dr. 40.8
2,944.0
389.3
1,500.8
1.80 x
169%-109
1.2 x 
(x G)
5.56
245.0t
1967
$1,833.0
95.6
17.7
35.6
34.0
30.7
845.0
165.0
202.6
 * Excluding debt-discount as an asset and deducting preferred stock at redemption value.
(In Millions of Dollars Except Earned Per Share)
1.5 (est.)
(4.8 x)
1.45 x
7.287
2.686
3.051
3.051
2.0 X.
1960
0.83
28-20
$143.0
94.5
29.3
14.6
28.5
Ling-Temco-Vought Inc., 1958-1970
.1 (est.)
(5.5 x)
1.27 x
1958
0.552
0.225
0.227
0.202
5.4 ×
0.17
6'9$
9
5
5.
+ As published. cr.: credit. dr.: debit. def.: deficit.
Current assets/ current liabilities
Net before taxes and interest
Earned per share of common
Debt payable within 1 year
Balance for common stock
Net after special items
Equity /long-term debt
Shareholders' equity
A. Operating Results
Market-price range
B. Financial Position
Interest charges
Long-term debt
(Times earned)
Income taxes
Special items
TABLE 17-1
Total assets
Sales
Ratios
428
The Intelligent Investor
