### 2. However, not included in the shareholders' equity is an item

of $20,700,000 designated as "excess of equity over cost of invest-
ment in Sharon."
SEcOND CoMMENT: If we eliminate the debt expense as an asset,
which it hardly seems to be, and include the other item in the
shareholders' equity (where it would normally belong), then we
have a more realistic statement of tangible equity for NVF stock,
viz., $2,200,000. Thus the first effect of the deal was to reduce
NVF's "real equity" from $17,400,000 to $2,200,000 or from $23.71
per share to about $3 per share, on 731,000 shares. In addition the
NVF shareholders had given to others the right to buy 3% times as
many additional shares at six points below the market price at the
close of 1968. The initial market value of the warrants was then
about $12 each, 0r a total of some $30 million for those involved in
the purchase offer. Actually, the market value of the warrants well
exceeded the total market value of the outstanding NVF stock-
another evidence of the tail-wagging-dog nature of the transaction.
The Accounting Gimmicks
When we pass from this pro forma balance sheet to the next
year's report we find several strange-appearing entries. In addition
to the basic interest expense (a hefty $7,500,000), there is deducted
$1,795,000 for "amortization of deferred debt expense." But this
last is nearly offset on the next line by a very unusual income item
432
The Intelligent Investor
indeed: "amortization of equity over cost of investment in sub-
sidiary: Cr. $1,650,000." In one of the footnotes we find an entry,
not appearing in any other report that we know of: Part of the stock
capital is there designated as "fair market value of warrants issued
in connection with acquisition, etc., $22,129,000."
What on earth do all these entries mean? None of them is even
referred to in the descriptive text of the 1969 report. The trained
security analyst has to figure out these mysteries
s by himself,
almost in detective fashion. He finds that the underlying idea is to
derive a tax advantage from the low initial price of the 5% deben-
tures. For readers who may be interested in this ingenious arrange.
ment we set forth our solution in Appendix 6.
Other Unusual Items
