### 5. At the end of 1970 Standard & Poor's Stock Guide reported that

NVF shares were selling at a price /earning ratio of only 2, the lowest
figure for all the 4,500-odd issues in the booklet. As the old Wall Street
saying went, this was "important if true." The ratio was based on the
year's closing price of 8% and the computed "earnings" of $5.38 per
share for the 12 months ended September 1970. (Using these figures
the shares were selling at only 1.6 times earnings.) But this ratio did
not allow for the large dilution factor,* nor for the adverse results
actually realized in the last quarter of 1970. When the full year's fig-
 p s    pr  ae a s
the stock, before allowing for dilution, and $1.80 per share on a
diluted basis. Note also that the aggregate market price of the stock
and warrants on that date was about $14 million against a bonded
debt of $135 million---a skimpy equity position indeed.
AAA Enterprises
History
About 15 years ago a college student named Williams began
selling mobile homes (then called "trailers").t In 1965 he incorpo-
* The “large dilution factor" would be triggered when NVF employees exer-
P      s o a  sm e 
issue more shares, and its net earnings would be divided across a much
greater number of shares outstanding.
+ Jackie G. Williams founded AAA Enterprises in 1958. On its first day of trad-
AAA would come up with a new franchising concept every month (if people
would step into a mobile home to get their income taxes done by "Mr. Tax of
America," just imagine what else they might do inside a trailer!). But AAA ran
out of time and money before Williams ran out of ideas. The history of AAA
agement and scanty assets: ZzzZ Best achieved a stock-market value of
roughly $200 million in the late 1980s, even though its purported industrial
vacuum-cleaning business was little more than a telephone and a rented office
run by a teenager named Barry Minkow. ZZzZ Best went bust and Minkow
434
The Intelligent Investor
rated his business. In that year he sold $5,800,000 of mobile homes
and earned $61,000 before corporate tax. By 1968 he had joined the
"franchising" movement and was selling others the right to sell
mobile homes under his business name. He also conceived the
bright idea of 8
 d p sn   
returns, using his mobile homes as offices. He formed a subsidiary
company called Mr. Tax of America, and of .course started to sell
franchises to others to use the idea and the name. He multiplied
the number of corporate shares to 2,710,000 and was ready for a
stock offering. He found that one of our largest stock-exchange
houses, along with others, was willing to handle the deal. In March
1969 they offered the public 500,000 shares of AAA Enterprises at
$13 per share. Of these, 300,000 were sold for Mr. Williams's per-
sonal account and 200,000 were sold for the company account,
adding $2,400,000 to its resources. The price of the stock promptly
doubled to 28, or a value of $84 million for the equity,
against a
book value of, say, $4,200,000 and maximum reported earnings of
$690,000. The stock was thus selling at a tidy 115 times its current
p sem i iqnop oN 'aeus ad souruea (sdren pue)
selected the name AAA Enterprise so that it might be among the
first in the phone books and the yellow pages. A collateral result
was that his company was destined to appear as the first name in
Standard & Poor's Stock Guide. Like Abu-Ben-Adhem's, it led all
the rest.* This gives a special reason to select it as a harrowing
example of 1969 new financing and "hot issues."
CoMMENT: This was not a bad deal for Mr. Williams. The
300,000 shares he sold had a book value in December of 1968 of
$180,000 and he netted therefor 20 times as much, or a cool
$3,600,000. The underwriters and distributors split $500,000
between them, less expenses.
and a new generation of “investors" will be taken for a ride. No one who has
read Graham, however, should climb on board.
*In “Abou Ben Adhem" by the British Romantic poet Leigh Hunt
(1784-1859), a righteous Muslim sees an angel writing in a golden book
"the names of those who love the Lord:" When the angel tells Abou that his
name is not among them, Abou says, "l pray thee, then, write me as one that
loves his fellow men" The angel returns the next night to show Abou the
book, in which now "Ben Adhem's name led all the rest"
Four Extremely Instructive Case Histories
435
