### 2. Nonetheless, the price of the stock doubled soon after original

issuance, and any one of the brokerage-house clients could have
gotten out at a handsome profit. Did this fact alter the flotation, or
did the advance possibility that it might happen exonerate the
original distributors of the issue from responsibility for this public
offering and its later sequel? Not an easy question to answer, but it
deserves careful consideration by Wall Street and the government
regulatory agencies.t
Subsequent History
With its enlarged capital AAA Enterprises went into two addi-
tional businesses. In 1969 it opened a chain of retail carpet stores, and
it acquired a plant that manufactured mobile homes. The results
reported for the first nine months were not exactly brilliant, but they
were a little better than the year before---22 cents a share against 14
* By purchasing more common stock at a premium to its book value, the
investing public increased the value of AAA's equity per share. But investors
were only pulling themselves up by their own bootstraps, since most of the
rise in shareholders' equity came from the public's own willingness to over-
pay for the stock.
+ Graham's point is that investment banks are not entitled to take credit for
the gains a hot stock may produce right after its initial public offering unless
they are also willing to take the blame for the stock's performance in the
longer term. Many Internet IPOs rose 1,000% or more in 1999 and early
2000; most of them lost more than 95% in the subsequent three years.
How could these early gains earned by a few investors justify the massive
destruction of wealth suffered by the millions who came later? Many IPOs
were, in fact, deliberately underpriced to "manufacture” immediate gains
that would attract more attention for the next offering.
436
TheIntelligent Investor
cents. What happened in the next months was literally incredible.
The company lost $4,365,000, or $1.49 per share. This consumed all its
capital.before the financing, plus the entire $2,400,000 received on the
sale of stock plus two-thirds of the amount reported as earned in the
first nine months of 1969. There was left a pathetic $242,000, or 8 cents
per share, of capital for the public shareholders who had paid $13 for
the new offering only seven months before. Nonetheless the shares
closed the year 1969 at 8% bid, or a "valuation" of more than $25 mil-
lion for the company.
FURTHER CoMMENT: 1. It is too much to believe that the company
had actually earned $686,000 from January to September 1969 and
then lost $4,365,000 in the next three months. There was something
sadly, badly, and accusingly wrong about the September 30 report.
