### 2. The year's closing price of 8% bid was even more of a demon-

stration of the complete heedlessness of stock-market prices than
Were the original offering price of 13 or the subsequent "hot-issue"
advance to a high bid of 28. These latter quotations at least were
based on enthusiasm and hope-out of all proportion to reality and
common sense, but at least comprehensible. The year-end valuation
of $25 million was given to a company that had lost all but a minus-
cule remnant of its capital, for which a completely insolvent condi-
tion was imminent, and for which the words "enthusiasm" or "hope'
Would be only bitter sarcasms. (It is true the year-end figures had not
houses associated with a company to have monthly operating state-
ments and a fairly exact idea of how things are going.)
Final Chapter
For the first half of 1970 the company reported a further loss of
$1 million. It now had a good-sized capital deficit. It was kept out
of bankruptcy by loans made by Mr. Williams, up to a total of
$2,500,000. No further statements seem to have been issued, until
in January 1971 AAA Enterprises finally filed a petition in bank-
ruptcy. The quotation for the stock at month-end was still 50 cents
a share bid, or $1,500,000 for the entire issue, which evidently had
no more than wallpaper value. End of our story.
MoRAL AND QuEsTIoNs: The speculative public is incorrigible. In
Four Extremely Instructive Case Histories
437
financial terms it cannot count beyond 3. It will buy anything, at any
price, if there seems to be some "action" in progress. It will fall for
any company identified with "franchising," computers, electronics,
science, technology, or what have you, when the particular fashion is
raging. Our readers, sensible investors all, are of course above such
foolishness. But questions remain: Should not responsible invest-
ment houses be honor-bound to refrain from identifying themselves
with such enterprises, nine out of ten of which may be foredoomed to
ultimate failure? (This was actually the situation when the author
entered Wall Street in 1914. By comparison it would seem that the
ethical standards of the "Street" have fallen rather than advanced in
the ensuing 57 years, despite all the reforms and all the controls.)
Could and should the SEC be given other powers to protect the pub-
lic, beyond the present ones which are limited to requiring the print-
ing of all important relevant facts in the offering prospectus? Should
some kind of box score for public offerings of various types be com-
piled and published in conspicuous fashion? Should every prospec-
tus,and
1 perhaps every confirmation of sale under an original
offering, carry some kind of formal warranty that the offering price
for the issue is not substantially out of line with the ruling prices for
issues of the same general type already established in the market? As
we write this edition a movement toward reform of Wall Street
abuses is under way. It will be difficult to impose worthwhile
changes in the field of new offerings, because the abuses are so
largely the result of the public's own heedlessness and greed. But the
matter deserves long and careful consideration.*
* The first four sentences of Graham's paragraph could read as the official
epitaph of the Internet and telecommunications bubble that burst in early
