### 2000. Just as the Surgeon General's warning on the side of a cigarette

pack does not stop everyone from lighting up, no regulatory reform will ever
prevent investors from overdosing on their own greed. (Not even Commu-
nism can outlaw market bubbles; the Chinese stock market shot up 101.7%
in, the first half of 1999, then crashed.) Nor can investment banks ever be
entirely cleansed of their own compuision to sell any stock at any price the
market will bear. The circle can only be broken one investor, and one finan-
cial adviser, at a time. Mastering Graham's principles (see especially Chap-
ters 1, 8, and 20) is the best way to start.
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 17
The wisdom god, Woden, went out to the king of the trolls, got
him in an armlock, and demanded to know of him how order
might triumph over chaos. "Give me your left eye, said the troll,
"and I'll tell you:" Without hesitation, Woden gave up his left
eye. "Now tell me:" The troll said, "The secret is, 'Watch with
both eyes!!"
-John Gardner
The More thinGs chanGe ..
Graham highlights four extremes:
: an overpriced "tottering giant"
an empire-building conglomerate
a merger in which a tiny firm took over a big one
an initial public offering of shares in a basically worthless com-
pany
The past few years have provided enough new cases of Graham's
extremes to fill an encyclopedia. Here is a sampler:
Lucent, not transParenT
In mid-2oo0, Lucent Technologies lnc. was owned by more investors
than any other U.S. stock. With a market capitalization of $192.9 bil-
lion, it was the 12th-most-valuable company in America.
Was that giant valuation justified? Let's look at some basics from
Lucent's financiai report for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2000:'
1 This document, like all the financial reports cited in this chapter, is readily
438
Commentary on Chapter 17
439
FIGURE 17-1 Lucent Technologies Inc.
For the quarter ended . . .
June 30, 2000 June 30,1999
Income
Revenues
8,713
7,403
Income (loss) from continuing operations
(14)
622
Income (loss) from discontinued operations
(287)
141
Net income
(301)
763
Assets
Cash
710
1,495
Receivables
10,101
9,486
Goodwill
8,736
3,340*
Capitalized software development costs
576.
412
Total assets
46,340
37,156
All numbers in millions of dollars. * Other assets, which includes goodwill.
Source: Lucent quarterly financial reports (Form 10-Q).
A closer reading of Lucent's report sets alarm bells jangling like an
unanswered telephone switchboard:
Lucent had just bought an optical equipment supplier, Chromatis
Networks, for $4.8 billion-of which $4.2 billion was "goodwill" (or
cost above book value). Chromatis had 150 employees, no cus-
tomers, and zero revenues, so the term "goodwill" seems inade-
quate; perhaps "hope chest" is more accurate. If Chromatis's
embryonic products did not work out, Lucent would have to
reverse the goodwill and charge it off against future earnings.
A footnote discloses that Lucent had lent $1.5 billion to pur-
chasers of its products. Lucent was also on the hook for $350
million in guarantees for money its customers had borrowed else*
where. The total of these "customer financings" had doubled in a
Ang oi yso jo ino buuun aram slaseynd eun busaenns-a
Lucent's products. What if they ran out of cash to pay their
debts?
Finally, Lucent treated the cost of developing new software as a
"capital asset." Rather than an asset, wasn't that a routine busi-
ness expense that should come out of earnings?
440
Commentary on Chapter 17
CONCLUSlON: In August 2001, Lucent shut down the Chromatis
division after its products reportedly attracted only two customers.2 In
fiscal year 2001, Lucent lost $16.2 billion; in fiscal year 2002, it lost
another $11.9 billion. Included in those losses were $3.5 billion in
"provisions for bad debts and customer financings" $4.1 billion in
"related to capitalized software."
Lucent's stock, at $51.062 on June 30, 2000, finished 2002 at
$1.26-a loss of nearly $190 billion in market value in two-and-a-half
years.
THe ACQuISitiOn MaGICIaN
To describe Tyco International Ltd., we can only paraphrase Winston
os ot Xuew os Ag pjos uaag yonu os sey jarau jeyi Kes pue hyounuo
few. From 1997 through 2001, this Bermuda-based conglomerate spent
a total of more than $37 billion-most of it in shares of Tyco stock-buying
companies the way imelda Marcos bought shoes. In fiscal year 2000
The result? Tyco grew phenomenally fast; in five years, revenues
went from $7.6 billion to $34 bilion, and operating income shot from a
$476 million loss to a $6.2 billion gain. No wonder the company had a
total stock-market value of $114 billion at the end of 2001.
But Tyco's financial statements were at least as mind-boggling as
its growth. Nearly every year, they featured hundreds of millions of dol-
lars in acquisition-related charges. These expenses fell into three main
categories:
1) "merger" or "restructuring" or "other nonrecurring” costs,
2) "charges for the impairment of long-lived assets, and
3) "write-offs of purchased in-process research and development."
For the sake of brevity, let's refer to the first kind of charge as
MORON, the second as CHILLA, and the third as WOOPIPRAD. How
did they show up over time?
2 The demise of the Chromatis acquisition is discussed in The Financial Times,
August 29, 2001, p. 1, and September 1/September 2, 2001, p. XXlll.
Commentary on Chapter 17
441
FIGURE 17-2 Tyco International Ltd.
Fiscal
year
MORON
CHILLA
WOOPIPRAD
1997
918
148
361
1998
0
0
0
1999
1,183
335
0
2000
4175
99
0
2001
234
120
184
Totals
2,510
702
545
All figures are as originally reported, stated in hundreds of millions of dollars.
Source: Tyco International annual reports (Form 10-K).
As you can see, the MORON charges-which are supposed to be
nonrecurring-showed up in four out of five years and totaled a whopping
$2.5 billion. CHILLA cropped up just as chronically and amounted to
more than $7oO million. WOOPIPRAD came to another half-billion dol-
lars.3
The intelligent investor would ask:
If Tyco's strategy of growth-through-acquisition was such a neat
idea, how come it had to spend an average of $750 million a year
cleaning up after itseif?
If, as seems clear, Tyco was not in the business of making things-
but rather in the business of buying other companies that make
things-then  why
y were its MORON charges “nonrecurring"?
Weren't they just part of Tyco's normal costs of doing business?
And with accounting charges for past acquisitions junking up every
year's earnings, who could tell what next year's would be?
: When accounting for acquisitions, loading up on WOOPIPRAD enabled
Tyco to reduce the portion of the purchase price that it allocated to goodwill.
Since WOOPIPRAD can be expensed up front, while goodwill (under the
accounting rules then in force) had to be written off over multi-year periods,
this maneuver enabled Tyco to minimize the impact of goodwill charges on
its future earnings.
442
Commentary on Chapter 17
In fact, an investor couldn't even tell what Tyco's past earnings
were. In 1999, after an accounting review by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, Tyco retroactively added $257 million in
MORON charges to its 1998 expenses-meaning that those "nonre-
curring" costs had actually recurred in that year, too. At the same time,
the   company   rejiggered   its  originally
y reported 1999 charges:
MORON dropped to $929 million while CHILLA rose to $507 million.
Tyco was clearly growing in size, but was it growing more prof-
itable? No outsider could safely tell.
  1   '    2o9o
stock, which had closed at $58.90 at year-end 2001, finished 2002 at
$17.08-a loss of 71% in twelve months.*
A mINNow SwallOws a whale
On January 1o, 2oo0, America Online, Inc. and Time Warner Inc.
announced that they would merge in a deal initially valued at $156
billion.
As of December 31, 1999, AOL had $10.3 billion in assets, and its
revenues over the previous 12 months had amounted to $5.7 bilion.
Time Warner, on the other hand, had $51.2 billion in assets and rev-
enues of $27.3 billion. Time Warner was a vastly bigger company by
any measure except one: the valuation of its stock. Because America
Online bedazzled investors simply by being in the Internet industry, its
stock sold for a stupendous 164 times its earnings. Stock in Time
Warner, a grab bag of cable television, movies, music, and magazines,
sold for around 50 times earnings.
.. In announcing the deal, the two companies called it a "strategic
merger of equals." Time Warner's chairman, Gerald M. Levin, declared
that "the opportunities are limitless for everyone connected to AOL
Time Warner"--above all, he added, for its shareholders.
Ecstatic that their stock might finaily get the cachet of an Internet
4 In 2002, Tyco's former chief executive, L. Dennis Kozlowski, was charged
by state and Federal legal authorities with income tax fraud and improperly
diverting Tyco's corporate assets for his own use, including the appropria-
tion of $15,000 for an umbrella stand and $6,0o0 for a shower curtain.
Kozlowski denied all charges.
Commentary on Chapter 17
443
darling, Time Warner shareholders overwhelmingly approved the deal,
But they overlooked a few things:
This “merger of equals" was designed to give America Online's
shareholders 55% of the combined company-even though Time
Warner was five times bigger.
For the second time in three years, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission was investigating whether America Online
had improperly accounted for marketing costs.
Nearly half of America Online's total assets-$4.9 billion worth--
of publicly-traded technology stocks fell, that could wipe out
much of the company's asset base.
CONCLUSlON: On January 11, 2001, the two firms finalized their
merger. AOL Time Warner Inc. lost $4.9 billion in 2001 and-in the
most gargantuan loss ever recorded by a corporation-another $98.7
billion in 2002. Most of the losses came from writing down the value
of America Online. By year-end 2002, the shareholders for whom
roughly 8o% loss in the value of their shares since the deal was first
announced.s
Can You Flunk
InvestinG kinderGarten?
On May 20, 1999, eToys Inc. sold 8% of its stock to the public. Four
of Wall Street's most prestigious investment banks-Goldman, Sachs
& Co.; BancBoston Robertson Stephens; Donaldson, Lufkin & Jen-
rette; and Merrill Lynch & Co.--underwrote 8,320,000 shares at $20
apiece, raising $166.4 million. The stock roared up, closing at
$76.5625, a 282.8% gain in its first day of trading. At that price,
eToys (with its 102 million shares) had a market value of $7.8 billion."
5 Disclosure: Jason Zweig is an employee of Time Inc., formerly a division of
Time Warner and now a unit of AOL Time Warner Inc.
Arthur the aardvark, showing in comic style how much easier it would be to
444
Commentary on Chapter 17
What kind of business did buyers get for that price? eToys' sales
had risen 4,261% in the. previous year, and it had added 75,000 cus-
tomers in the last quarter alone. But, in its 20 months in business,
eToys had produced total sales of $30.6 million, on which it had run a
net loss of $30.8 million--meaning that eToys was spending $2 to sell
every dollar's worth of toys.
The iPO prospectus aiso disciosed that eToys would use some
proceeds of the offering to acquire another online operation, Baby-
Center, Inc., which had lost $4.5 million.on $4.8 million in sales over
the previous year. (To land this prize, eToys would pay a mere $205
million.) And eToys would “reserve" 40.6 million shares of common
stock for future issuance to its ,management. So, if eToys ever made
money, its net income would have to be divided not among 102 million
shares, but among 143 million-diluting any future earnings per share
by nearly one-third.
A comparison of eToys with Toys "R" Us, Inc.-its biggest rivai-is
shocking. In the preceding three months, Toys "R" Us had earned $27
uyi spooe aow saw oz jaso pjos peu pue awoou! lau u! uo
eToys had sold in an entire year. And yet as Figure 17-3 shows, the
stock market valued eToys at nearly $2 billion more than Toys "R" Us.
C     'o    oi
tection after racking up net losses of more than $398 million in its
brief life as a public company. The stock, which peaked at $86 per
share in October 1999, last traded for a penny.
buy tchotchkes for children at eToys than at a traditional toy store. As analyst
Gail Bronson of IPO Monitor told the Associated Press on the day of eToys
stock offering, “eToys has very, very smartly managed. the development of
the company last year and positioned themselves to be the children's center
of the Internet:" Added Bronson: “The key to a successful IPO, especially a
dot-com IPO, is good marketing and branding:" Bronson was partly right:
That's the key to a successful IPO for the issuing company and its bankers.
Unfortunately, for investors the key to a successful IPO is earnings, which
eToys didn't have.
Commentary on Chapter 17
445
FIGURE 17-3 A Toy Story
eToys Inc.
Toys "R" Us,
Inc.
Fiscal year
Fiscal quarter
ended 3/31/1999
ended 5/1/1999
Net sales
30
2,166
Net income
(29)
27
Cash
20
289
Total assets
31
8,067
Market value of common stock
(5/20/1999)
7,780
5,650
All amounts in millions of dollars.
Sources: The companies' SEC filings.
