### 1971. The latest reported earnings were $1.50 per share, and the stock

was selling moderately above its 1970 book value of $21.60. The issue
may have been somewhat overpriced at its record high in 1968, but the
shareholders have been honestly and well served by their trustees.
The Real Estate Equities story is a different and a sorry one.
Pair 2: Air Products and Chemicals (industrial and medical
gases, etc.) and Air Reduction Co. (industrial gases and
equipment; chemicals)
Even more than our first pair, these two resemble each other in
both name and line of business. The comparison they invite is thus
of the conventional type in security analysis, while most of our
other pairs are more heteroclite in nature.t "Products" is a newer
tember 1973. In 1974, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued
Realty Equities' accountants for fraud. Realty Equities' founder, Morris Karp,
later pleaded guilty to one count of grand larceny. In 1974-1975, the
overindebtedness that Graham criticizes led to a financial crisis among large
banks, including Chase Manhattan, that had lent heavily to the most aggres-
sive realty trusts.
+ "Heteroclite" is a technical term from classical Greek that Graham uses to
mean abnormal or unusual.
A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies
451
   ss p   p ,  
other's volume.* Nonetheless its equity issues sold for 25% more in
the aggregate than Air Reduction's stock. As Table 18-2 shows, the
reason can be found both in Air Reduction's greater profitability
and in its stronger growth record. We find here the typical conse-
quences of a better showing of "quality." Air Products sold at 16%
S   s e  ss s s s s
Also Air Products sold well above its asset backing, while Air
Reduction could be bought at only 75% of its book value.t Air
Reduction paid a more liberal dividend; but this may be deemed to
reflect the greater desirability for Air Products to retain its earn-
ings. Also, Air Reduction had a more comfortable working-capital
position. (On this point we may remark that a profitable company
can always put its current position in shape by some form' of per-
manent financing. But by our standards Air Products was some-
what overbonded.)
If the analyst were called on to choose between the two compa-
nies he would have no difficulty in concluding that the prospects
of Air Products looked more promising than those of Air Reduc-
tion. But did this make Air Products more attractive at its consider-
ably higher relative price? We doubt whether this question can be
security analysts would opt for the "better' but dearer Air Prod-
this preference is to prove right or wrong is more likely to depend
on the unpredictable future than on any demonstrable investment
principle. In this instance, Air Reduction appears to belong to the
group of important companies in the low-multiplier class. If, as the
studies referred to abovett would seem to indicate, that group as a
 By "volume" Graham is referring to sales or revenues-the total dollar
amount of each company's business.
+ "Asset backing" and book value are synonyms. In Table 18-2, the relation-
ship of price to asset or book value can be seen by dividing the first line
("Price, December 31, 1969") by "Book value per share"
tt Graham is citing his research on value stocks, which he discusses in Chap-
ter 15 (see p. 389). Since Graham completed his studies, a vast body of
scholarly work has confirmed that value stocks outperform (cont'd on p. 453)
452
The Intelligent Investor
           e 
multiplier stocks, then Air Reduction should logically be given the
preference--but only as part of a diversified operation. (Also, a
thorough-going study of the individual companies could lead the
analyst to the opposite conclusion; but that would have to be for
reasons beyond those already reflected in the past showing.)
SEQUEL: Air Products stood up better than Air Reduction in the
TABLE 18-2. Pair 2.
Air Products
Air Reduction
& Chemicals 1969
1969
Price, December 31, 1969
391%
16%
Number of shares of common
5,832,000a
11,279,000
Market value of common
$231,000,000
$185,000,000
Debt
113,000,000
179,000,000
Total capitalization at market
344,000,000
364,000,000
Book value per share
$22.89
$21.91
Sales
$221,500,000
$487,600,000
Net income
13,639,000
20,326,000
Earned per share, 1969
$2.40
$1.80
Earmed per share, 1964
. 1.51 .
1.51
Earned per share, 1959
.52
1.95
Current dividend rate
.20
.80
Dividend since
1954
1917
Ratios:
Price/earnings
16.5 x
9.1 x
Price/book value
165.0%
75.0%
Dividend yield
0.5%
4.9%
Net/sales
6.2%
4.25%
Earnings/book value
11.0%
8.2%
Current assets /liabilities
1.53 x
3.77 X
Working capital/debt
.32 X
.85 x
Growth in per-share earnings
1969 versus 1964
+59%
+19%
1969 versus 1959
+362%
decrease
* Assuming conversion of preferred stock.
A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies
453
1970 break, with a decline of 16% against 24%. However, Reduction
made a better comeback in early 1971, rising to 50% above its 1969
close, against 30% for Products. In this case the low-multiplier
issue scored the advantage-for the time being, at least.*
Pair 3: American Home Products Co. (drugs, cosmetics,
household products, candy) and American Hospital Supply
Co. (distributor and manufacturer of hospital supplies and
equipment)
These were two "billion-dollar good-will" companies at the end
of 1969, representing different segments of the rapidly growing
and immensely profitable "health industry." We shall refer to them
as Home and Hospital, respectively. Selected data on both are pre-
sented in Table 18-3. They had the following favorable points in
common: excellent growth, with no setbacks since 1958 (i.e., 100%
earnings stability); and strong financial condition. The growth rate
of Hospital up to the end of 1969 was considerably higher than
Home's. On the other hand, Home enjoyed substantially better
rate of Hospital's earnings on its capital in 1969only 9.7%--raises
the intriguing question whether the business then was in fact a
highly profitable one, despite its remarkable past growth rate in
sales and earnings.)
When comparative price is taken into account, Home offered
(cont'd from p. 451) growth stocks over long periods. (Much of the best
research in modern finance simply provides independent confirmation of
what Graham demonstrated decades ago.) See, for instance, James L.
Davis, Eugene F. Fama, and Kenneth R. French, "Characteristics, Covari-
* Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., still exists as a publicly-traded stock and
is included in the Standard & Poor's 5o0-stock index. Air Reduction Co.
became a wholly-owned subsidiary of The BOC Group (then known as
British Oxygen) in 1978.
t You can determine profitability, as measured by return on sales and return
on capital, by referring to the “Ratios" section of Table 18-3. "Net/sales" mea-
454
The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 18-3.  Pair 3.
American Home
American Hospital
Products 1969
Supply 1969
Price, December 31, 1969
72
45%
Number of shares of common
52,300,000
33,600,000
Market value of common
$3,800,000,000
$1,516,000,000
Debt
11,000,000
18,000,000
Total capitalization at market
3,811,000,000
1,534,000,000
Book value. per share
$5.73
$7.84
Sales
$1,193,000,000
$446,000,000
Net income
123,300,000
25,000,000
Earned per share, 1969
$2.32
$.77
Earned per share, 1964
1.37
.31
Earned per share, 1959
.92
.15
Current dividend rate
1.40
.24
Dividends since
1919
1947
Ratios:
Price/earnings
31.0 X
58.5 x
Price/book value
1250.0%
575.0%
Dividend yield
1.9%
0.55%
Net/sales
10.7%
5.6%
Earnings/book value
41.0%
9.5%
Current assets/liabilities
2.6 x
4.5 x
Growth in per-share earnings
1969 versus 1964
+75%
+142%
1969 versus 1959
+161%
+405%
much more for the money in terms of current (or past) earnings
and dividends. The very low book value of Home illustrates a basic
ambiguity or contradiction in common-stock analysis. On the one
hand, it means that the company is earning a high
a return on its
capital--which in general is a sign of strength and prosperity. On
the other, it means that the investor at the current price would be
especially
1 vulnerable to any important adverse change in the
company's earnings situation. Since Hospital was selling at over
four times its book value in 1969, this cautionary remark must be
applied to both companies.
A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies
455
CoNCLUslONs: Our clear-cut view would be that both companies
  iso a  sad s r re , o am
investor who decides to follow our ideas of conservative selection
This does not mean that the companies were lacking in promise.
The trouble is, rather, that their price contained too much "prom-
ise" and not enough actual performance. For the two enterprises
combined, the 1969 price reflected almost $5 billion of good-will
valuation. How many years of excellent future earnings would it
take to "realize" that good-will factor in the form of dividends or
tangible assets?
SHORT-TERM SEQUEL: At the end of 1969 the market evidently
thought more highly of the earnings prospects of Hospital than of
Home, since it gave the former almost twice the multiplier of the
latter. As it happened the favored issue showed a microscopic
decline in earnings in 1970, while Home turned in a respectable 8%
gain. The market price of Hospital reacted significantly to this one-
year disappointment. It sold at 32 in February 1971-a loss of
about 30% from its 1969 closewhile Home was quoted slightly
above its corresponding level.*
Pair 4: H & R Block, Inc. (income-tax service) and Blue Bell,
Inc., (manufacturers of work clothes, uniforms, etc.)
These companies rub shoulders as relative newcomers to the
New York Stock Exchange, where they represent two very different
genres of success stories. Blue Bell came up the hard way in a
highly competitive industry, in which eventually it became the
largest factor. Its earnings have fluctuated somewhat with industry
conditions, but their growth since 1965 has been impressive. The
company's operations go back to 1916 and its continuous dividend
record to 1923. At the. end of 1969 the stock market showed no
enthusiasm for the issue, giving it a price /earnings ratio of only 11,
against about 17 for the S & P composite index.
By contrast, the rise of H & R Block has been meteoric. Its first
* American Home Products Co. is now known as Wyeth; the stock is
included in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. American Hospital Sup-
ply Co. was acquired by Baxter Healthcare Corp. in 1985.
456
The Intelligent Investor
published figures date only to 1961, in which year it earned $83,000
on revenues of $610,000. But eight years later, on our comparison
date, its revenues had soared to $53.6 million and its net to $6.3
million. At that time the stock market's attitude toward this fine
performer appeared nothing less than ecstatic. The price of 55 at
the close of 1969 was more than 100 times the last reported 12-
months' earnings--which of course were the largest to date. The
aggregate market value of $300 million for the stock issue was
nearly 30 times the tangible assets behind the shares.* This was
almost unheard of in the annals of serious stock-market valuations.
(At that time IBM was selling at about 9 times and Xerox at 11
times book value.)
 so   s    s i  
extraordinary discrepancy in the. comparative valuations of Block
and Blue Bell. True, Block showed twice the profitability of Blue
Bell per dollar of capital, and its percentage
e growth in earnings
over the past five years
(from practically
y nothing) was much
higher. But as a stock enterprise Blue Bell was selling for less than
one-third the total value of Block, although Blue Bell was doing
 o qn se s y aa 'sssna un se sa no
stock, had 5% times as much in tangible investment, and gave nine
times the dividend yield on the price.
     n 
for future growth. He might have had some qualms about the dan-
gers of serious competition in the income-tax-service field, lured by
the handsome return on capital realized by Block. But mindful of
the continued success of such outstanding companies as Avon
Products in highly competitive areas, he would have hesitated to
predict a speedy flattening out of the Block growth curve. His chief
value" in the Ratios section of Table 18-4. Graham would have shaken his
head in astonishment during late 1999 and early 2000, when many high-
tech companies sold for hundreds of times their asset value (see the com-
jo siuue au u! jo peayun isowe, inoqe xel '(aideyo siun uo Aeua
serious stock-market valuations"! H & R Block remains a publicly-traded
company, while Blue Bell was taken private in 1984 at $47.50 per share.
A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies
457
TABLE 18-4. Pair 4.
H& R Block
Blue Bell
1969
1969
Price, December 31, 1969
55
49%
Number of shares of common
5,426,000
1,802,000a
Market value of common
$298,000,000
$89,500,000
Debt
17,500,000
Total capitalization at market
298,000,000
107,000,000
Book value per share
$1.89
$34.54
Sales
$53,600,000
$202,700,000
Net income
6,380,000
7,920,000
Earned per share, 1969
$.51 (October)
$4.47
Earned per share, 1964
.07
2.64
Earned per share, 1959
1.80
Current dividend rate
.24
1.80
Dividends since
1962
1923
Ratios:
Price/earnings
108.0 X
11.2
Price /book value
2920 %
142
%
Dividend yield
0.4 %
3.6
%
Net/sales
11.9 %
3.9
%
Earnings/book value
27 %
12.8
%
Current assets/liabilities
3.2 X
2.4x
Working capital/debt
no debt
3.75 x
Growth in per-share earnings
1969 versus 1964
+630%
+68%
1969 versus 1959
+148%
a Assuming conversion of preferred stock.
concern would be simply whether the $300 million valuation for
the company had not already fully valued and perhaps overvalued
all that one could reasonably expect from this excellent business.
By contrast the analyst should have had little difficulty in recom-
mending Blue Bell as a fine company, quite conservatively priced.
SEQUEL TO MARCH 1971. The 1970 near-panic lopped one-quarter
off the price of Blue Bell and about one-third from that of Block.
Both then joined in the extraordinary recovery of the general mar-
458
TheIntelligent Investor
ket. The price of Block rose to 75 in February 1971, but Blue Bell
advanced considerably more -to the equivalent of 109 (after a
three-for-two split). Clearly Blue Bell proved a better buy than
Block as of the end of 1969. But the fact that Block was able to
advance some 35% from that apparently inflated value indicates
how wary analysts and investors must be to sell good companies
n   a  -p  pm q r
may seem.*
Pair 5: International Flavors & Fragrances (flavors, etc., for
other businesses) and International Harvester Co. (truck
manufacturer, farm machinery, construction machinery)
This comparison should carry more than one surprise. Everyone
knows of International Harvester, one of the 30 giants in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average.t How many of our readers have even
heard of International Flavors & Fragrances, next-door neighbor to
Harvester on the New York Stock Exchange list? Yet, mirabile dictu,
IFF was actually selling at the end of 1969 for a higher aggregate
market value than Harvester--$747 million versus $710 million.
This is the more amazing when one reflects that Harvester had 17
times the stock capital of Flavors and 27 times the annual sales. In
investors believe that an overvalued stock must drop in price purely because
it is overvalued. Just as a coin does not become more likely to.turn up heads
after landing on tails for nine times in a row, so an overvalued stock (or stock
market!) can stay overvalued for a surprisingly long time. That makes short-
selling, or betting that stocks will drop, too risky for mere mortals.
t international Harvester was the heir to McCormick Harvesting Machine
Co., the manufacturer of the McCormick reaper that helped make the mid-
western states the "breadbasket of the world:" But International Harvester
fell on hard times in the 1970s and, in 1985, sold its farm-equipment busi-
ness to Tenneco.After changing its name to Navistar, the remaining com-
pany was booted from the Dow in 1991 (although it remains a member of
the S & P 5oo index). International Flavors & Fragrances, also a constituent
of the S & P 500, had a total stock-market value of $3 billion in early 2003,
versus $1.6 billion for Navistar.
A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies
459
TABLE 18-5. Pair 5.
International Flavors
International
& Fragrances 1969
Harvester 1969
Price, December 31, 1969
65%
24%
Number of shares of common
11,400,000
27,329,000
Market value of common
$747,000,000
$710,000,000
Debt
4,000,000
313,000,000
Total capitalization at market
751,000,000
1,023,000,000
Book value per share
$6.29
$41.70
Sales
$94,200,000
$2,652,000,000
Net income
13,540,000
63,800,000
Earned per share, 1969
$1.19
$2.30
Earned per share, 1964
.62
3.39
Earned per share, 1959
.28
2.83
Current dividend rate
.50
1.80
Dividends since
1956
1910
Ratios:
Price/earnings
55.0 x
10.7 x
Price/book value
1050.0%
59.0%
Dividend yield
0.9%
7.3%
Net/sales
14.3%
2.6%
Earnings/book value
19.7%
5.5%
Current assets/liabilities
3.7 x
2.0 x
Working capital/debt
large
1.7 x
Interest earned
(before tax) 3.9 x .
Growth in per-share earnings
1969 versus 1964
+93%
+9%
1969 versus 1959
+326%
+39%
fact, only three years before, the net earnings of Harvester had been
larger than the 1969 sales of Flavors! How did these extraordinary
disparities develop? The answer lies in the two magic words: prof-
itability and growth. Flavors made a remarkable showing in both
categories, while Harvester left everything to be desired.
The story is told in Table 18-5. Here we find Flavors with a sen-
sational profit of 14.3% of sales (before income tax the figure was
23%), compared with a mere 2.6% for Harvester. Similarly, Flavors
460
The Intelligent Investor
had earned 19.7% on its stock capital against an inadequate 5.5%
earned by Harvester. In five years the net earnings of Flavors had
nearly doubled, while those of Harvester practically stood still.
Between 1969 and 1959 the comparison makes similar reading.
These differences in performance produced a typical stock-market
divergence in valuation. Flavors sold in 1969 at 55 times its last
reported earnings, and Harvester at only 10.7 times. Correspond-
ingly, Flavors was valued at 10.4 times its book value, while Har-
vester was selling at a 41% discount from its net worth.
COMMENT AND CoNCLUSIONs: The first thing to remark is that the
market success of Flavors was based entirely on the development
of its central business, and involved none of the corporate wheel-
ing and dealing, acquisition programs, top-heavy capitalization
structures, and other familiar Wall Street practices of recent years.
The company has stuck to its extremely profitable knitting, and
that is virtually its whole story. The record of Harvester raises an
entirely different set of questions, but these too have nothing to do
 s   o   , , 
ity? What is the advantage of doing more than $2% billion of busi-
ness if the enterprise cannot earn enough
1to
justify
the
shareholders' investment? It is not for us to prescribe the solution
of this problem. But we insist that not only management but the
rank and file of shareholders should be conscious that the problem
exists and that it calls for the best brains and the best efforts possi-
ble to deal with it.* From the standpoint of· common-stock selec-
tion, neither issue would have met our standards of sound,
reasonably attractive, and moderately priced investment. Flavors
* For more of Graham's thoughts on shareholder activism, see the commen-
tary on Chapter 19. In criticizing Harvester for its refusal to maximize share-
holder value, Graham uncannily anticipated the behavior of the company's
future management. lIn 2o01, a majority of shareholders voted to remove
Navistar's restrictions against outside takeover bids-but the board of direc-
tors simply refused to implement the shareholders' wishes. It's remarkable
that an antidemocratic tendency in the culture of some companies can
endure for decades.
A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies
461
Harvester's showing was too mediocre to make it really attractive
available in the reasonably priced class.)
SEQuEL To 1971: The low price of Harvester at the end of 1969
protected it from a large further decline in the bad break of 1970. It
lost only 10% more. Flavors proved more vulnerable and declined
to 45, a loss of 30%. In the subsequent recovery both advanced,
well above their 1969 close, but Harvester soon fell back to the 25
level.
Pair 6: McGraw Edison (public utility and equipment;
housewares) McGraw-Hill, Inc. (books, films, instruction
systems; magazine and newspaper publishers; information
services)
This pair with so similar names--which at times we shall call
Edison and Hill-are two large and successful enterprises in vastly
different fields. We have chosen December 31, 1968, as the date of
our comparison, developed in Table 18-6. The issues were selling at
about the same price, but because of Hill's larger capitalization it
Was valued at about twice the total figure of the other. This differ-
s  s    t  s  
 s        
than twice as great for Hill as for Edison. This phenomenon seems
explicable chiefly by the persistence of a strong enthusiasm and
S        y
publishing companies, several of which had been introduced to
public trading in the later 1960s.*
Actually, by the end of 1968 it was evident that this enthusiasm
had been overdone. The Hill shares had sold at 56 in 1967, more
than 40 times the just-reported record earnings for 1966. But a small
decline had appeared in 1967 and a further decline in 1968. Thus the
  e  p  s     
operations, BusinessWeek magazine and Standard & Poor's Corp.
McGraw-Edison is now a division of Cooper Industries.
462
The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 18-6. Pair 6.
McGraw
McGraw-Hill
Edison 1968
1968
Price, December 31, 1968
375%
39%
Number of shares of common
13,717,000
24,200,000a
Market value of common
$527,000,000
$962,000,000
Debt
6,000,000
53,000,000
Total capitalization at market
533,000,000
1,015,000,000
Book value per share
$20.53
$5.00
Sales
$568,600,000
$398,300,000
Net income
33,400,000
26,200,000
Earned per share, 1968
$2.44
$1.13
Earned per share, 1963
1.20
.66
Earned per share, 1958
1.02
.46
Current dividend rate
1.40
.70
Dividends since
1934
1937
Ratios:
Price/earnings
15.5 x
35.0 x
Price/book value
183.0%
795.0%
Dividend yield
3.7%
1.8%
Net/sales
5.8%
6.6%
Earnings/book value
11.8%
22.6%
Current assets/liabilities
3.95 x
1.75 x
Working capital/debt
large
1.75 x
Growth in per-share earnings
1968 versus 1963
+104%
+71%
1968 versus 1958
+139%
+146%
* Assuming conversion of preferred stock.
had already shown two years of receding profits. Nonetheless the
stock was still valued at more than eight times its tangible asset
backing, indicating a good-will component of not far from a billion
sof a sn  ps d  s is
famous phrase "The triumph of hope over experience.'
By contrast, McGraw Edison seemed quoted at a reasonable
price in relation to the (high) general market level and to the
company's overall performance and financial position.
A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies
463
SEQUEL TO EARLY 1971: The decline of McGraw-Hill's earnings
continued through 1969 and 1970, dropping to $1.02 and then to
$.82 per share. In the May 1970 debacle its price suffered a devas-
tating break to 10—-less than a fifth of the figure two years before. It
had a good recovery thereafter, but the high of 24 in May 1971 was
still only 60% of the 1968 closing price. McGraw Edison gave a bet-
ter account of itself--declining to 22 in 1970 and recovering fully to
41% in May 1971.*
McGraw-Hill continues to be a strong and prosperous company.
But its price history exemplifiesas do so many other cases--the
speculative hazards in such stocks created by Wall Street through
its undisciplined waves of optimism and pessimism.
Pair 7: National General Corp. (a large conglomerate) and
National Presto Industries (diverse electric appliances,
ordnance)
These two companies invite comparison chiefly because they
  s  ,   s  os 
selected the end of 1968 for our study, because the write-offs taken
by General in 1969 made the figures for that year too ambiguous.
The full flavor of General's far-flung activities could not be savored
the year before, but it was already
 conglomerate enough  for
anyone's taste. The condensed description in the Stock Guide read
"Nation-wide theatre chain; motion picture and TV production,
 no m o nd ooq uss 1e  ss :
added, then or later, "insurance, investment banking, records,
music publishing, computerized services, real estate--and 35% of
Performance Systems Inc. (name recently changed from Minnie
Pearl's Chicken System Inc.)." Presto had also followed a diversifi-
cation program, but in comparison with General it was modest
indeed. Starting as the leading maker of pressure cookers, it had
branched out into various other household and electric appliances.
Quite differently, also, it took on a number of ordnance contracts
for the U.S. government.
* In "the May 1970 debacle" that Graham refers to, the U.S. stock market
lost 5.5%o. From the end of March to the end of June 1970, the S & P 500
index lost 19%o of its value, one of the worst three-month returns on record.
464
TheIntelligent Investor
Our Table 18-7 summarizes the showing of the companies at the
end of 1968. The capital structure of Presto was as simple as it
could be--nothing but 1,478,000 shares of common stock, selling in
the market for $58 million. Contrastingly, General had more than
twice as many shares of common, plus an issue of convertible pre-
ferred, plus three issues of stock warrants calling for a huge
amount of common, plus a towering convertible bond issue (just
given in exchange
e for stock of an insurance company), plus a
goodly sum of nonconvertible bonds. All this added up to a market
capitalization of $534 million, not counting an impending issue of
convertible bonds, and $750 million, including such issue. Despite
National General's enormously greater capitalization, it had actu-
ally done considerably less gross business than Presto in their fiscal
years, and it had shown only 75% of Presto's net income.
The determination of the true market value of General's common-
stock capitalization presents an interesting problem for security
analysts and has important implications for anyone interested in
the stock on any basis more serious than outright gambling. The
relatively small $4% convertible preferred can be readily taken care
of by assuming its conversion into common, when the latter sells at
a suitable market level. This we have done in Table 18-7. But the
warrants require different treatment. In calculating the "full dilu-
tion" basis the company assumes exercise of all the warrants, and
the application of the proceeds to the retirement of debt, plus use of
the balance to buy in common at the market. These assumptions
actually produced virtually no effect on the earnings per share in
calendar 1968-which were reported as $1.51 both before and after
allowance for dilution. We consider this treatment illogical and
,    e  s  t   s s
mon-stock package" and their market value is part of the "effective
market value' of the common-stock part of the capital. (See our
discussion of this point on p. 415 above.) This simple technique of
adding the market price of the warrants to that of the common has
a radical effect on the showing of National General at the end of
1968, as appears from the calculation in Table 18-7. In fact the "true
market price'" of the.common stock turns out to be more than twice
 s  n  dn     n t
s    ps   n  
The total market value of the "common-stock equivalents" then
A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies
465
TABLE 18-7. Pair 7.
National General
National Presto
1968
Industries 1968
Price, December 31, 1968
44/4
38%
Number of shares of common
4,330,000a
1,478,000
Market value of common
$192,000,000
$58,000,000
Add market value of 3
issues of warrants
221,000,000
Total value of common and warrants
413,000,000
Senior issues
121,000,000
Total capitalization at market
534,000,000
58,000,000
Market price of common stock
adjusted for warrants
98
Book value of common
$31.50
$26.30.
Sales and revenues
$117,600,000
$152,200,000
Net income
6,121,000
8,206,000
Earned per share, 1968
$1.42 (December)
$5.61
Earned per share, 1963
.96 (September)
1.03
Earned per share, 1958
.48 (September)
.77
Current dividend rate
.20
.80
Dividends since
1964
1945
Ratios:
Price /eamings
69.0 xb
6.9 x
Price/book value
310.0%
142.0%
Dividend yield
.5%
2.4%
Net/sales
5.5%
5.4%
Earnings/book value
4.5%
21.4%
Current assets/liabilities
1.63 X
3.40 x
Working capital/debt
.21 x
no debt
Growth in per-share earnings
1968 versus 1963
+48%
+450%
1968 versus 1960
+195%
+630%
a Assuming conversion of preferred stock.
* Adjusted for market price of warrants.
466
The Intelligent Investor
becomes $413 million, which is over three times the tangible assets
shown therefor.
These figures appear the more anomalous when comparison is
made with those of Presto. One is.moved to ask how could Presto
possibly be valued at only 6.9 times its current earnings when the
multiplier for General was nearly 10 times as great. All the ratios of
Presto are quite satisfactory--the growth figure suspiciously so, in
fact. By that we mean that the company was undoubtedly benefit-
ing considerably from its war work, and the shareholders should
be prepared for some falling off in profits under peacetime'condi-
tions. But, on balance, Presto met all the requirements of a sound
and reasonably priced investment, while General had all the ear-
marks of a typical "conglomerate" of the late 1960s vintage, full of
corporate gadgets and grandiose gestures, but lacking in substan-
tial values behind the market quotations.
SEQUEL: General continued its diversification policy in 1969, with
some increase in its debt. But it took a whopping write-off of mil-
lions, chiefly in the value of its investment in the Minnie Pearl
Chicken deal. The final figures showed a loss of $72 million before
tax credit and $46.4 million after tax credit. The price of the shares
fell to 16% in 1969 and as low as 9 in 1970 (only 15% of its 1968 high
 s d   p m  g s  g
and the price recovered to 28% in 1971. National Presto increased its
per-share earnings somewhat in both 1969 and 1970, marking 10
years of uninterrupted growth of profits. Nonetheless its price
declined to 21% in the 1970 debacle. This was an interesting figure,
since it was less than four times the last reported earnings, and less
than the net current assets available for the stock at the time. Late in
1971 we find the price of National Presto 60% higher, at 34, but the
ratios are. still startling. The enlarged working capital is still about
equal to the current price, which in turn is only 5% times the last
reported earnings. If the investor could now find ten such issues, for
diversification, he could be confident of satisfactory results.*
* National Presto remains a publicly-traded company. National General was
acquired in 1974 by another controversial conglomerate, American Financial
Group, which at various times has had interests in cable television, banking.
san jeuy eui osje s! hy 'seueuea pue 'aouensui 'spuny eninu 'aeisa ea
place of some of the assets of Penn Central Corp. (see Chapter 17).
A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies
467
Pair 8: Whiting Corp. (materials-handling equipment) and
Willcox & Gibbs (small conglomerate)
This pair are close but not touching neighbors on the American
Stock Exchange list. The comparison-set forth in Table 18-8A--
makes one wonder if Wall Street is a rational institution. The com-
pany with smaller sales and earnings, and with half the tangible
Table 18-8A. Pair 8.
Whiting
Willcox & Gibbs
1969
1969
Price, December 31, 1969
17%4
15%
Number of shares of common
570,000
2,381,000
Market value of common
$10,200,000
$36,900,000
Debt
1,000,000
5,900,000
Preferred stock
1,800,000
Total capitalization at market
$11,200,000
$44,600,000
Book value per share
$25.39
$3.29
Sales
$42,200,000
$29,000,000
(October)
(December)
Net income before special item
1,091,000
347,000
Net income after special item
1,091,000
def. 1,639,000
Earned per share, 1969
$1.91 (October)
$.08a
Earmed per share, 1964
1.90 (April)
.13
Earned per share, 1959
.42 (April)
.13
Current dividend rate
1.50
Dividends since
1954
(none since 1957)
Ratios:
Price/earnings
9.3 X
very large
Price/book value
70.0%
470.0%
Dividend yield
8.4%
Net/sales
3.2%
0.1%a
Earnings/book value
7.5%
2.4%a
Current assets/liabilities
3.0 x
1.55 x
Working capital/debt
9.0 x
3.6 x
Growth in per-share earnings
1969 versus 1964
even
decrease
1969 versus 1959
+354%
decrease
a Before special charge. def.: deficit.
468
The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 18-8B. Ten-Year Price and Earnings Record of
Whiting and Willcox & Gibbs
Whiting Corp.
Willcox & Gibbs
Earned
Price
Earned
Price
Per Share?
Range
Per Share
Range
1970
$1.81
221/-16%4
$.34
18%-4%
1969
2.63
37-17%
.05
20%-8%
1968
3.63
43%-28%4
.35
20%-8%
1967
3.01
36/-25
.47
11-4%
1966
2.49
30%4-19%4
.41
8-3%
1965
1.90
20-18
.32
10%-6%
1964
1.53
14-8
.20
9%-4%
1963
.88
15-9
.13
14-4%
1962
.46
10-6%
.04
19%-8/%4
1961
.42
12/--7/
.03
19%-10%
a Year ended following April 30.
assets for the common, sold at about four times the aggregate value
of the other. The higher-valued company was about to report a
large loss after special charges; it had not paid a dividend in thir-
teen years. The other had a long record of satisfactory earnings,
had paid continuous dividends since 1936, and was currently
returning one of the highest dividend yields in the entire common-
stock list. To indicate more vividly the disparity in the performance
of the two companies we append, in Table 18-8B, the earnings and
price record for 1961-1970.
The history of the two companies throws an interesting light on
the development of medium-sized businesses in this country, in
contrast with much larger-sized companies that have mainly
thus goes back at least 75 years. It seems to have kept pretty faith-
fully to its materials-handling business and has done quite well
with it over the decades. Willcox & Gibbs goes back even farther
to 1866-and was long known in its industry as a prominent maker
A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies
469
of industrial sewing machines. During the past decade it adopted a
policy of diversification in what seems a rather outlandish form.
For on the one hand it has an extraordinarily large number of sub-
sidiary companies (at least 24), making an astonishing variety of
products, but on the other hand the entire conglomeration adds up
to mighty small potatoes by usual Wall Street standards.
The earnings developments in Whiting are rather characteristic
of our business concerns. The figures show steady and rather spec-
tacular growth from 41 cents a share in 1960 to $3.63 in 1968. But
they carried no assurance that such growth must continue indefi-
nitely. The subsequent decline to only $1.77 for the 12 months
ended January 1971 may have reflected nothing more than the
slowing down of the general economy. But the stock price reacted
in severe fashion, falling about 60% from its 1968 high (43%) to the
close of 1969. Our analysis would indicate that the shares repre-
sented a sound and attractive secondary-issue investment--suit-
able for the enterprising investor as part of a group of such
commitments.
SEQUEL: Willcox & Gibbs showed a small operating loss for 1970.
Its price declined drastically to a low of 4%, recovering in typical
fashion to 9% in February 1971. It would be hard to justify that price
statistically. Whiting had a relatively small decline, to 16% in 1970.
(At that price it was selling at just about the current assets alone
available for the shares). Its earnings held at $1.85 per share to July
