### 1971. In early 1971 the price advanced to 24%, which seemed rea-

sonable enough but no longer a "bargain" by our standards.*
General Observations
The issues used in these comparisons were selected with some
malice aforethought, and thus they cannot be said to present a ran-
dom cross-section of the common-stock list. Also they are limited
to the industrial section, and the important areas of public utilities,
* Whiting Corp. ended up a subsidiary of Wheelabrator-Frye, but was taken
private in 1983. Willcox & Gibbs is now owned by Group Rexel, an electri-
cal-equipment manufacturer that is a division of Pinault-Printemps-Redoute
Group of France. Rexel's shares trade on the Paris Stock Exchange.
470
The Intelligent Investor
transportation companies, and financial enterprises do not appear.
But they vary sufficiently in size, lines of business, and qualitative
and quantitative aspects to convey a fair idea of the choices con-
fronting an investor in common stocks.
: The relationship between price and indicated value has also dif-
fered greatly from one case to another. For the most part the compa-
nies with better growth records and higher profitability have sold at
higher multipliers of current earnings-which is logical enough in
TABLE 18-9. Some Price Fluctuations of Sixteen Common
Stocks (Adjusted for Stock Splits Through 1970)
Price Range
Decline
Decline :
1936-1970
1961 to 1962
1968-69 to 1970
Air Products & Chemicals
1%49
43/4--21%
49-31%
Air Reduction
9% 45%4
221-12
37-16
American Home Products
7%-72
44%-22
72--51%
American Hospital Supply
3/4~-47/2
115%-53
47/r--26%a
H & R Block
14-681%2
6812-37%/a
Blue Bell
8/4--55
25-16
44%-26%
International Flavors
: & Fragrances
4/4-67%2
8-4%
66%/8--47%
International Harvester
6/4--53
28%/4-19%4
38%/-22
McGraw Edison
1%4-46%4
24%-14b
44%-21%
McGraw-Hill
%-56%2
21%-9%
54%-10%
National General
3%-60%
147%-4%b
60%-9
National Presto Industries
%-45
20%-814
45-21%
Real Estate Investment
Trust
10%-30%
25%-15%4
3014--16%
Realty Equities of N.Y.
33/4-47%/4
67/8- 4/2
37%/4--2
Whiting
2% 43%
12%-6%
43%-16%
Willcox & Gibbs
4-20%
19%-8%4
20%--412
a High and low both in 1970.
b 1959 to 1960.
A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies
471
general. Whether the specific differentials in price/earnings ratios
are "justified" by the factsor will be vindicated by future devel-
opments---cannot be answered with confidence. On the other hand
we do have quite a few instances here in which a worthwhile judg-
there has been great market activity in companies of questionable
which means inherently risky-but a good deal of the time they.
were and are obviously overvalued. Other issues appeared to be
market attitude -which we might call "underspeculation"--or by
undue pessimism because of a shrinkage in earnings.
 In Table 18-9 we provide some data on the price fluctuations of
the issues covered in this chapter. Most of them had large declines
between 1961 and 1962, as well. as from 1969 to 1970. Clearly the
investor must be prepared for this type of adverse market move-
ment in future stock markets. In Table 18-10 we show year-to-year
TABLE 18-10.1
Large Year-to-Year Fluctuations of
McGraw-Hill, 1958-1971a
From
To
Advances
Declines
1958
1959
39-72
1959
1960
54-109%
1960
1961
2134-43%
1961
1962
18%4--32%
43%-18%4
1963
1964
23%-387
1964
1965
28%-61
1965
1966
37/-79%
1966
1967
54/-112
1967
1968
56/4-37%
1968
1969
54%-24
1969
1970
39%-10
1970
1971
10-24%
a Prices not adjusted for stock-splits.
472
The Intelligent Investor
fluctuations of McGraw-Hill
l common stock for the period
1958-1970. It will be noted that in each of the last 13 years the price
either advanced or'declined over a range of at least three to two
from one year to the next. (In the case of National General fluctua-
tions of at least this amplitude both upward and downward were
shown in each two-year period.)
In studying the stock list for the material in this chapter, we
were impressed once again by the wide difference between the
usual objectives of security analysis and those we deem depend-
able and rewarding. Most security analysts try to select the issues
that will give the best account of themselves in the future, in terms
chiefly of market action but considering also the development of
earnings. We are frankly skeptical as to whether this can be done
with satisfactory results. Our preference for the analyst's work
would be rather that he should seek the exceptional or minority
cases in which he can form a reasonably confident judgment that
the price is well below value. He should be able to do this work
with sufficient expertness to produce satisfactory average results
over the years.
COMMENTARY 0N CHAPTER 18
The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and that
which is done is that which shall be done: and there is no new
thing under the sun. Is there any thing whereof it may be said,
See, this is new? it hath been already of old time, which was
before us.
-Ecclesiastes, I: 9-10.
- et's update Graham's classic write-up of eight pairs of companies,
using the same compare-and-contrast technique that he pioneered in
his lectures at Columbia Business School and the New York Institute
of Finance. Bear in mind that these summaries describe these stocks
only at the times specified. The cheap stocks may later become over-
priced; the expensive stocks may turn cheap. At some point in its life,
almost every stock is a bargain; at another time, it will be expensive.
Although there are good and bad companies, there is no such thing as
a good stock; there are only good stock prices, which come and go.
Pair 1: cisco and sysco
On March 27, 2000, Cisco Systems, Inc., became the world's most
valuable corporation as its stock hit $548 billion in total value. Cisco,
which makes, equipment that directs data over the Internet, first sold
its shares to the public only 10 years earlier. Had you bought Cisco's
stock in the initial offering and kept it, you would have earned a gain
resembling a typographical error made by a madman: 103,697%o, 0r a
217% average annual return. Over its previous four fiscal quarters,
Cisco had generated $14.9 billion in revenues and $2.5 billion in
earnings. The stock was trading at 219 times Cisco's net income, one
of the highest price/earnings ratios ever accorded to a large company.
Then there was Sysco Corp., which supplies food to institutional
473
474
Commentary on Chapter 18
kitchens and had been publicly traded for 30 years. Over its last four
quarters, Sysco served up $17.7 billion in revenues-almost 20%
more than Cisco-but "only" $457 million in net income. With a market
value of $11.7 billion, Sysco's shares'traded at 26 times earnings,
well below the market's average P/E ratio of 31.
A word-association game with a typical investor might have gone
like this.
Q: What are the first things that pop into your head when I say
Cisco Systems?
A: The lnternet . . . the industry of the future . . . great stock . . . hot
stock . . . Can I please buy some before it goes up even more?
Q: And what about Sysco Corp.?
A: Delivery trucks . . . succotash . . . Sloppy Joes .. . shepherd's
pie . . . schoo! lunches . . . hospital food . . . no thanks, I'm not hungry
anymore.
It's well established that people often assign a mental value to
stocks based largely on the emotional imagery that companies evoke.'
But the intelligent investor always digs deeper. Here's what a skeptical
look af Cisco and Sysco's financial statements would have turned up:
Much of Cisco's growth in revenues and earnings came from
acquisitions. Since September alone, Cisco had ponied up $10.2
billion to buy 11 other firms. How could so many companies be
1 Ask yourself which company's stock would be likely to rise more: one that
discovered a cure for a rare cancer, or one that discovered a new way to
dispose of a common kind of garbage. The cancer cure sounds more excit-
ing to most investors, but a new way to get rid of trash would probably make
more money. See Paul Slovic, Melissa Finucane, Ellen Peters, and Donald
G. MacGregor, "The Affect Heuristic, in Thomas Gilovich, Dale Griffin, and
Daniel Kahneman, eds., Heuristics and Biases: The Psychology of Intuitive
Judgment (Cambridge University Press, New York, 2002), pp. 397-420,
and Donald G. MacGregor, “lmagery and Financial Judgment, The Journal
of Psychology and Financial Markets, vol. 3, no. 1, 2002, pp. 15-22.
always meet a bad end on Wall Street. See the commentary on Chapter 17
for a longer discussion.
Commentary on Chapter 18
475
exercised by Cisco's executives and employees amounted to the
equivalent of roughly one-third of the company's total earnings
over the previous six months. And Cisco had gained $5.8 billion
selling "investments," then bought $6 billion more. Was it an Inter-
"suawsau, asoue h peum ipuny jennw e ho Auedsoo beu
stopped going up?
Sysco
0 had also acquired several companies over the same
period-but paid only about $130 million. Stock options for
Sysco's insiders totaled only 1.5% of shares outstanding, versus
6.9% at Cisco. If insiders cashed their options, Sysco's earnings
per share would be diluted much less than Cisco's. And Sysco
had raised its quarterly dividend from nine cents a share to 10;
Cisco paid no dividend.
Finally, as Wharton finance professor Jeremy Siegel pointed out, no
company as big as Cisco had ever been able to grow fast enough to
Once a company becomes a giant, its growth must slow down-or it
will end up eating the entire world. The great American satirist
Ambrose Bierce coined the word "incompossible" to describe two
company can be a giant, or it can deserve a giant P/E ratio, but both
together are incompossibie.
The wheels soon came off the Cisco juggernaut. First, in 2001,
came a $1.2 billion charge to "restructure" some of those acquisi-
tions. Over the next two years, $1.3 billion in losses on those "invest-
ments" leaked out. From 2000 through 2002, Cisco's stock lost
three-quarters of its value. Sysco, meanwhile, kept dishing out profits,
and the stock gained 56% over the same period (see Figure 18-1).
Pair 2: Yahoo! and Yum!
79.6% since the year began. By December 7, the stock was at $348-
 Jeremy Siegel, "Big-Cap Tech Stocks are a Sucker's Bet," Wall Street
Journal, March 14, 2000 (available at www.jeremysiegel.com).
476
Commentary on Chapter 18
FIGURE 18-1  Cisco vs. Sysc0
2000
2001
2002
Cisco
Total return (%)
-28.6
-52.7
--27.7
Net earnings ($ millions)
2,668
-1,014
1,893
Sysco
Total return (%)
53.5
-11.7
15.5
Net earnings ($ millions)
446
597
680
Note: Total returns for calendar year; net earnings for fiscal year.
Source: www.morningstar.com
a 63.6%o gain in five trading days. Yahoo! kept whooping along
through year-end, closing at $432.687 on December 31. In a single
month, the stock had more than doubled, gaining roughly $58 billion
to reach a total market value of $1 14 billion.4
In the previous four quarters, Yahoo! had racked up $433 million in
revenues and $34.9 million in net income. So Yahoo!'s stock was now
priced at 263 times revenues and 3,264 times earnings. (Remember
that a P/E ratio much above 25 made Graham grimace!)5
Why was Yahoo! screaming upward? After the market closed on.
November 30, Standard & Poor's announced that it would add Yahoo!
to its S & P 500 index as of December 7. That would make Yahoo! a
compulsory holding for index funds and other big investors-and that
sudden rise in demand was sure to drive the stock even higher, at
least temporarily. With some 9o% of Yahoo!'s stock locked up in the
hands of employees, venture-capital firms, and other restricted hold-
ers, just a fraction of its shares could trade. So thousands of people
bought the stock only because they knew other people would have to
buy it--and price was no object.
here are not adjusted for that split in order to show the levels the stock actu-
ally traded at. But Yahoo!'s percentage return and market value, .as cited
here, do reflect the split.
5 Counting the effect of acquisitions, Yahoo!'s revenues were $464 milion.
Graham criticizes high P/E ratios in (among other places) Chapters 7 and 11.
Commentary on Chapter 18
477
Meanwhile, Yum! went begging. A former division of PepsiCo that
runs thousands of Kentucky Fried Chicken, Pizza Hut, and Taco Bell
eateries, Yum! had produced $8 billion in revenues over the previous
four quarters, on which it earned $633 million-making it more than 17
times Yahoo!'s size. Yet Yum!'s stock-market value at year-end 1999
was only $5.9 billion, or 1/19 of Yahoo!'s capitalization. At that price,
Yum!'s stock was selling at just over nine times its earnings and only
73% of its revenues.
As Graham liked to say, in the short run the market is a voting
machine, but in the long run it is a weighing machine. Yahoo! won the
short-term popularity contest. But in the end, it's earnings that matter--
and Yahoo! barely had any. Once the market stopped voting and
started weighing, the scales tipped toward Yum! lIts stock rose 25.4%
from 2000 through 2002, while Yahoo!'s lost 92.4% cumulatively:
FIGURE 18-2 Yahoo! vs. Yum!
2000
2001
2002
Yahoo!
Total return (%)
-86.1
-41.0
--7.8
Net earnings ($ millions)
71
-93
43
Yum!
Total return (%)
-14.6
49.1
-1.5
Net earnings ($ millions)
413
492
583
Notes: Total returns for calendar year; net earnings for fiscal year. Yahoo!'s net earn-
ings for 2002 include effect of change in accounting principle.
Sources: www.morningstar.com
Pair 3: commerce one and capital one
In May 20o0, Commerce One, Inc., had been publicly traded only
since the previous July. In its first annual report, the company (which
6 Yum! was then known as Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc., although its
ticker symbol was YUM. The company changed its name officially to Yum!
Brands, Inc. in May 2002.
478
Commentary on Chapter 18
designs Internet “exchanges" for corporate purchasing departments)
showed assets of just $385 million and reported a net loss of $63 mil-
Jion on only $34 million in total revenues. The stock of this minuscule
company had risen nearly 900% since its 1PO, hitting a total market
capitalization of $15 billion. Was it overpriced? "Yes, we have a big
market cap" Commerce One's chief executive, Mark Hoffman,
seeing incredible demand. . . . Analysts expect us to make $140 mil-
tions."
Two things jump out from Hoffman's answer:
Since Commerce One was already losing $2 on every dollar in
sales, if it quadrupled its revenues (as “analysts expect"), wouldn't
it lose money even more massively?
How could Commerce One have exceeded expectations "in the
past"? What past?
Asked whether his company would ever turn a profit, Hoffman was
ready: "There is no question we can turn this into a profitable busi-
ness. We plan on becoming profitable in the fourth quarter of 2001, a
year analysts see us making over $250 million in revenues."
There come those analysts again! “"I like Commerce One at these
levels because it's growing faster than Ariba [a close competitor
whose stock was also trading at around 4oo times revenues]," said
Jeanette Sing, an analyst at the Wasserstein Perella investment bank.
"lf these growth rates continue, Commerce One will be trading at 60
to 70 times sales in 2001:" (ln other words, I can name a stock that's
more overpriced than Commerce One, so Commerce One is cheap.)'
At the other extreme was Capital One Financial Corp., an issuer of
MasterCard and Visa credit cards. From July 1999, to May 2000, its
stock lost 21.5%o. Yet Capital One had $12 billion in total assets and
earned $363 million in 1999, up 32% from the year before. With a
market value of about $7.3 billion, the stock sold at 20 times Capital
One's net earnings. All might not be well at Capital One-the company
had barely raised its reserves for loans that might go bad, even though
' See "CEO Speaks" and "The Bottom Line, Money, May 2000, pp. 42-44.
Commentary on Chapter 18
479
at least some risk of potential trouble.
What happened next? In 2001, Commerce One generated $409
million in revenues. Unfortunately, it ran a net loss of $2.6 billion-or
$10.30 of red ink per share-on those revenues. Capital One, on the
other hand, earned nearly $2 billion in net income in 2000 through
