### 2002. lts stock lost 38% in those three years--no worse than the stock

market as a whole. Commerce One, however, lost 99.7% of its value.
Instead of listening to Hoffman and his lapdog analysts, traders
should have heeded the honest warning in Commerce One's annual
report for 1999: "We have never been profitable. We expect to incur
net losses for the foreseeable future and we may never be profitable.
PaIr 4: Palm and 3coM
On March 2, 2000, the data-networking company 3Com Corp. sold
5% of its Palm, Inc. subsidiary to the public. The remaining 95% of
Paim's stock would be spun off to 3Com's shareholders in the next
few months; for each share of 3Com they held, investors would
receive 1.525 shares of Palm.
So there were two ways you couid get 100 shares of Palm: By try-
ing to elbow your way into the 1PO, or by buying 66 shares of 3Com
and waiting until the parent company distributed the rest of the Paim
stock. Getting one-and-a-half shares of Palm for each 3Com share,
you'd end up with 1o0 shares of the new company-and you'd still
have 66 shares of 3Com.
But who wanted to wait a few months? While 3Com was struggling
handheld digital organizers. So Palm's stock shot up from its offering price
of $38 to close at $95.06, a 150% first-day retum. That valued Palm at
more than 1,350 times its earnings over the previous 12 months.
That same day, 3Com's share price dropped from $104.13 to
$81.81. Where should 3Com have closed that day, given the price of
Palm? The arithmetic is easy:
8 In early 2003, Capital One's chief financial officer resigned after securities
regulators revealed that they might charge him with violations of laws
against insider trading.
480
Commentary on Chapter 18
each 3Com share was entitled to receive 1.525 shares of Palm
each share of Palm closed at $95.06
1.525 X $95.06 = $144.97
That's what each 3Com share was worth based on its stake in
Palm alone. Thus, at $81.81, traders were saying that all of 3Com's
other businesses combined were worth a negative $63.16 per share,
or a total of minus $22 billion! Rarely in history has any stock been
priced more stupidly.?
But there was a catch: Just as 3Com wasn't really worth minus
$22 bilion, Palm wasn't really worth over 1,350 times earnings. By
the end of 2002, both stocks were hurting in the high-tech recession,
but it was Paim's sharehoiders who really got smacked-because they
abandoned all common sense when they bought in the first place:
FIGURE 18-3
Palm's Down
14,000-
12,000
Value of $10,000 investment
10,000
B,000
Palm
3Com
6,000
4,000
$2,576
2,000
$83
3/2/00
6/2/00
9/2/00
12/2/00
3/2/01
6/2/01
9/2/01
12/2/01.
3/2/02
6/2/02
9/2/02
12/2/02
Dates
Source: www.morningstar.com
" For a more advanced look at this bizarre event, see Owen A. Lamont and
Richard H. Thaler, "Can the Market Add and Subtract?" National Bureau of Eco-
nomic Research working paper no. 8302, at www.nber.org/papers/w8302.
Commentary on Chapter 18
481
PaIR 5: CmGI ANd CG1
The year 2000 started off with a bang for CMGl, Inc., as the stock hit
$163.22 on January 3-a gain of 1,126% over its price just one year
before. The company, an "Internet incubator" financed and acquired
start-up firms in a variety of online businesses-among them such early
stars as theglobe.com and Lycos.10
In fiscal year 1998, as its stock rose from 98 cents to $8.52,
CMGl spent $53.8 million acquiring whole or partial stakes in Internet
      1 '5    s
$46.09, CMGl shelled out $104.7 million. And in the last five months
of 1999, as its shares z0omed up to $138.44, CMGl spent $4.1 bil-
lion on acquisitions. Virtually all the "money" was CMGl's own pri-
vately-minted currency: its common stock, now valued at a total of
more than $40 bilion.
It was a kind of magical money merry-go-round. The higher CMGl's
own stock went, the more it could afford to buy. The more CMGl
could afford to buy, the higher its stock went. First stocks would go up
on the rumor that CMGI might buy them; then, once CMGl acquired
them, its own stock would go up because it owned them. No one
cared that CMGl had lost $127 million on its operations in the latest
fiscal year.
Down in Webster, Massachusetts, less than 70 miles southwest of
CMGl's headquarters in Andover, sits the main office of Commerce
Group, Inc. CGl was everything CMGl was not: Offering automobile
insurance, mainly to drivers in Massachusetts, it was a cold stock in an
old industry. Its shares lost 23% in 1999-although its net income, at
$89 million, ended up falling only 7% below 1998's level. CGl even
paid a dividend of more than 4% (CMGl paid none). With a total mar-
ket value of $870 million, CGl stock was trading at less than 10 times
what the company would earn for 1999.
And then, quite suddenly, everything went into reverse. CMGl's
magical money merry-go-round screeched to a halt: Its dot-com
10 CMGl began corporate life as College Marketing Group, which sold infor-
mation about college professors and courses to academic publishers-a
business'that bore a faint but disturbing similarity to National Student Mar-
keting, discussed by Graham on p. 235.
482
Commentary on Chapter 18
stocks stopped rising in price, then went straight down. No longer
able to sell them for a profit, CMGl had to take their loss in value as a
hit to its earnings. The company lost $1.4 billion in 2000, $5.5 billion
in 2001, and nearly $500 million more in 2002. Its stock went from
b-200z pue-le9k 1q s1ue0 86 01 000z jo bujuui6aq au1 1e 27'591$
loss of 99.4%. Boring old CGl, however, kept cranking out steady
earnings, and its stock rose 8.5% in 2000, 43.6%o in 2001, and 2.7%
in 2002-a 60% cumulative gain.
Pair 6: ball And stryker
Between July 9 and July 23, 2002, Ball Corp's stock dropped from
$43.69 to $33.48-a loss of 24% that left the company with a stock-
market value of $1.9 billion. Over the same two weeks, Stryker Corp's
a    o 8  'ot    h s
at a total of $9 billion.
os un ssal yonw os yhom saiuedwoo omi aseyl apew pey peum
short a time? Stryker, which manufactures orthopedic implants and
surgical equipment, issued only one press release during those two
weeks. On July 16, Stryker announced that its sales grew 15% to
$734 million in the second quarter, while earnings jumped 31% to
$86 million. The stock rose 7%o the next day, then rolled right back
downhill.
Bal, the original maker of the famous "Ball Jars" used for canning
fruits and vegetables, now makes metal and plastic packaging for
industrial customers. Ball issued no press releases at all during those
two weeks. On July 25, however, Ball reported that it had earned $50
million on sales of $1 billion in the second quarter-a 61% rise in net
income over the same period one year earlier. That brought. its earn-
ings over the trailing four quarters to $152 million, so the stock was
trading at just 12.5 times Ball's earnings. And, with a book value of
$1.1 billion, you could buy the stock for 1.7 times what the company's
tangible assets were worth. (Bail did, however, have just over $900
million in debt.)
Stryker was in a different league. Over the last four quarters, the
company had generated $301 million in net income. Stryker's book
value was $570 million. So the company was trading at fat muitiples of
30 times its earnings over the past 12 months and nearly 16 times its
book value. On the other hand, from 1992 through the end of 2001,
Stryker's earnings had risen 18.6% annually; its dividend had grown
Commentary on Chapter 18
483
by nearly 21% per year. And in 2001, Stryker had spent $142 million
and July 23, 2002, as WorldCom keeled over into bankruptcy, the Dow
Jones Industrial Average fell from 9096.09 to 7702.34, a 15.3%
plunge. The good news at Ball and Stryker got lost in the bad headlines
and falling markets, which took these two stocks down with them.
Although Ball ended up priced far more cheaply than Stryker, the
lesson here is not that Ball was a steal and Stryker was a wild pitch.
Instead, the intelligent investor should recognize that market panics
can create great prices for good companies (like Ball) and good
prices for great companies (like Stryker). Ball finished 2002 at $51.19
a share, up 53% from its July low; Stryker ended the year at $67.12,
up 47%. Every once in a while, value and growth stocks alike go on
sale. Which choice you prefer depends largely on your own personal-
ity, but bargains can be had on either side of the plate.
Pair 7: nortel and Nortek
The 1999 annual report for Nortel Networks, the fiber-optic equipment
company, boasted that it was "a golden year financially:" As of Febru-
ary 2000, at a market value of more than $150 billion, Nortel's stock
traded at 87 times the earnings that Wal Street's analysts estimated
the company would produce in 2000.
How credible was that estimate? Nortel's accounts receivable-
sales to customers that had not yet paid the bill-had shot up by $1
billion in a year. The company said the rise "was driven by increased
sales in the fourth quarter of 1999." However, inventories had also bal-
looned by $1.2 billion-meaning that Nortel was producing equipment
even faster than those "increased sales" could unload it.
Meanwhile, Nortel's "long-term receivables"-bills not yet paid for
multi-year contracts-jumped from $519 million to $1.4 billion. And Nor-
tel was having a hard time controlling costs; its selling, general, and
administrative expense (or overhead) had risen from 17.6%o of revenues
in 1997 to 18.7% in 1999. All told, Nortel had lost $351 million in 1999.
Then there was Nortek, Inc., which produces stuff at the dim end of
the glamour spectrum: vinyl siding, door chimes, exhaust fans, range
hoods, trash compactors. In 1999, Nortek earned $49 million on $2
sales in 1997. Nortek's profit margin (net earnings as a percentage of
484
Commentary on Chapter 18
net sales) had risen by almost a third from 1.9% to 2.5%o. And Nortek
had cut overhead from 19.3% of revenues to 18.1%.
. To be fair, much of Nortek's expansion came from buying other
companies, not from internal growth. What's more, Nortek had $1 bil-
lion in debt, a big load for a small firm. But, in February 2000, Nortek's
stock price-roughly five times its earnings in 1999-included a healthy
dose of pessimism.
On the other hand, Nortel's price--87 times the guesstimate of what it
might earn in the year to come-was a massive overdose of optimism.
When all was said and done, instead of earning the $1.30 per share that
analysts had predicted, Nortel lost $1.17 per share in 2000. By the end
of 2002, Nortel had bled more than $36 billion in red ink.
Nortek, 0n the other hand, earned $41.6 million in 2000, $8 million
in 2001, and $55 million in the first nine months of 2002. Its stock
went from $28 a share to $45.75 by year-end 2002-a 63% gain. In
January 2003, Nortek's managers took the company private, buying all
the stock from public investors at $46 per share. Nortel's stock, mean-
while, sank from $56.81 in February 2000, to $1.61 at year-end
2002-a.97% foss.
Pair 8: red hat and brown shoe
On August 11, 1999, Red Hat, lnc., a developer of Linux software,
sold stock to the public for the first time. Red Hat was red-hot; initially
offered at $7, the shares opened for trading at $23 and closed at
$26.031 -a 272%o gain.11 In a single day, Red Hat's stock had gone up
more than Brown Shoe's had in the previous 18 years. By December
9, Red Hat's shares hit $143.13-up 1,944%o in four months.
Brown Shoe, meanwhile, had its laces tied together. Founded in
1878, the company wholesales Buster Brown shoes and runs nearly
1,300 footwear stores in the United States and Canada. Brown Shoe's
stock, at $17.50 a share on August 11, stumbled down to $14.31 by
December 9. For all of 1999, Brown Shoe's shares lost 17.6%.2
11 All stock prices for Red Hat are adjusted for its two-for-one stock split in
January 2000.
12 Ironically, 65 years earlier Graham had singled out Brown Shoe as one of
the most stable companies on the New York Stock Exchange. See the 1934
edition of Security Analysis, p. 159.
Commentary on Chapter 18
485
Besides a cool name and a hot stock, what did Red Hat's investors
get? Over the nine months ending November 30, the company pro-
duced $13 million in revenues, on which it ran a net loss of $9 mil-
delicatessen-and a lot less lucrative. But traders, inflamed by the
words "software" and "Internet" drove the total value of Red Hat's
shares to $21.3 billion by December 9.
And Brown Shoe? Over the previous three quarters, the company
had produced $1.2 billion in net sales and $32 million in earnings.
Brown Shoe had nearly $5 a share in cash and real estate; kids were
still buying Buster Brown shoes. Yet, that December 9, Brown Shoe's
stock had a total value of $261 million-barely 1/80 the size of Red
Hat even though Brown Shoe had 1o0 times Red Hat's revenues. At
that price, Brown Shoe was valued at 7.6 times its annual earnings
and less than one-quarter of its annual sales. Red Hat, on the other
hand, had no profits at all, while its stock was selling at more than
1,0oo times its annual sales.
Red Hat the company kept right on gushing red ink. Soon enough,
the stock did too. Brown Shoe, however, trudged out more profits-
and so did its shareholders:
FIGURE 18-4 Red Hat vs. Brown Shoe
2000
2001
2002
Red Hat
Total return (%)
-94.1
13.6
--16.8
Net earnings ($ millions)
-43
-87
-140
Brown Shoe
Total return (%)
-4.6
28.2
49.5
Net earnings ($ millions)
36
36
-4
Note: Total returns for calendar year; net earnings for fiscal year,
Source: www.morningstar.com
1 We use a nine-month period only because Red Hat's 12-month results
could not be determined from its financial statements without including the
results of acquisitions.
486
Commentary on Chapter 18
What have we learned? The market scoffs at Graham's principles
in the short run, but they are always revalidated in the end. If you buy a
stock purely because its price has been going up-instead of asking
whether the underlying company's value is increasing-then sooner or
later you will be extremely sorry. That's not a likelihood. It is a certainty.
