### 2. Are the interests of the average outside shareholder receiving

proper recognition?"4
You should judge the efficiency of management by comparing each
company's profitability, size, and competitiveness against similar firms
in its industry. What if you conclude that the managers are no good?
Then, urges Graham,
A few of the more substantial stockholders should become convinced
that a change is needed and should be willing to work toward that
end. Second, the rank and file of the stockholders should be open-
minded enough to read the proxy material and to weigh the argu-
ments on both sides. They must at least be able to know when their
company has been unsuccessful and be ready to demand more than
artful platitudes as a vindication of the incumbent management. Third,
it would be most helpful, when the figures clearly show that the
results are well below average, if it became the custom to call in out-
side business engineers to pass upon the policies and competence
of the management.5
: Graham and Dodd, Security Analysis (1934 ed.), p. 508.
4 The Intelligent Investor, 1949 edition, p. 218.
6 1949 edition, p. 223. Graham adds that a proxy vote would be necessary
to authorize an independent committee of outside shareholders to select
"the engineering firm" that would submit its report to the shareholders, not
to the board of directors. However, the company would bear the costs of
this project. Among the kinds of “engineering firms" (cont'd on p. 501)
500
Commentary on Chapter 19
The enron end- ruN
Back in 1999, Enron Corp. ranked seventh on the Fortune 500
list of America's top companies. The energy giant's revenues,
assets, and earnings were all rising like rockets.
But what if an investor had ignored the glamour and glittering
numbers-and had simply put Enron's 1999 proxy statement
under the microscope of common sense? Under the heading
"Certain Transactions, the proxy disclosed that Enron's chief
financial officer, Andrew Fastow, was the "managing member"
of two partnerships, LJM1 and LJM2, that bought "energy and
communications related investments" And where was LJM1
and LJM2 buying from? Why, where else but from Enron! The
is ubnog Apeaie pey sdusiauped aue peue paodau Axod
million of assets from Enron-sometimes using money borrowed
from Enron.
The intelligent investor would immediately have asked:
Did Enron's directors approve this arrangement? (Yes, said
the proxy.)
Would Fastow get a piece of LJM's profits? (Yes, said the
proxy.)
As Enron's chief financial officer, was Fastow obligated to act
exciusively in the interests of Enron's shareholders? (Of
course.)
Was Fastow therefore duty-bound to maximize the price
Enron obtained for any assets it sold? (Absolutely.)
But if LJM paid a high price for Enron's assets, would that
lower LJM's potential profits-and  Fastow's personal
income? (Clearly.)
On the other hand, if LJM paid a low price, would that raise
profits for Fastow and his partnerships, but hurt Enron's
income? (Clearly.)
Should Enron lend Fastow's partnerships any money to buy
assets from Enron that might generate a personal profit for
Fastow? (Say what?!)
Doesn't all this constitute profoundly disturbing conflicts of
interest? (No other answer is even possible.)
Commentary on Chapter 19
501
What does this arrangement say about the judgment of the
directors who approved it? (lt says you should take your
investment dollars elsewhere.)
Two clear lessons emerge from this disaster: Never dig so
deep into the numbers that you check your common sense at
the door, and always read the proxy statement before (and after)
you buy a stock.
What is "proxy material" and why does Graham insist that you read
it? In its proxy statement, which it sends to every sharehoider, a com-
pany announces the agenda for its annual meeting and discloses
details about the compensation and stock ownership of managers
and directors, along with transactions between insiders and the com-
pany. Shareholders are asked to vote on which accounting firm should
audit the books and who should serve on the board of directors. If you
use your common sense while reading the proxy, this document can
be like a canary in a coal mine-an early warning system signaling that
something is wrong. (See the Enron sidebar above.)
Yet, on average, between a third and a half of all individual investors
cannot be bothered to vote their proxies. Do they even read them?
Understanding and voting your proxy is as every bit as fundamental
(cont'd from p. 499) Graham had in mind were money managers, rating agen-
asooyo pinoo shoisasun Kepol 'sisheue Amnoas jo suoneziuebio pue soio
from among hundreds of consulting firms, restructuring advisers, and mem-
bers of entities like the Risk Management Association.
6 Tabuiations of voting results for 2002 by Georgeson Shareholder and
ADP's Investor Communication Services, two leading firms that mail proxy
solicitations to investors, suggest response rates that average around 80%
to 88% (including proxies sent in by stockbrokers on behalf of their clients,
which are automatically voted in favor of management unless the clients
specify otherwise). Thus the owners of between 12% and 20% of all shares
are not voting their proxies. Since individuals own only 4o%o of U.S. shares
by market value, and most institutional investors like pension funds and
sueaw jeun 'sanss! Axod uo aioa dn punog Aebal ane saluedwoo aouensu
that roughly a third of all individual investors are neglecting to vote.
502
Commentary on Chapter 19
to being an intelligent investor as following the news and voting your
conscience is to being a good citizen. It doesn't matter whether you
own 10% of a company or, with your piddling 100 shares, just
1/10.000 of 1%. If you've never read the proxy of a stock you own,
and the company goes bust, the only person you should blame is
yourself. If you do read the proxy and see things that disturb you, then:
vote against every director to let them know you disapprove
attend the annual meeting and speak up for your rights
find an online message board devoted to the stock (like those at
http://finance.yahoo.com) and rally other investors to join your
cause.
Graham had another idea that could benefit today's investors:
. . . there are advantages to be gained through the selection of one or
more professional and independent directors. These should be men
of wide business experience who can turn a fresh and expert eye on
the problems of the enterprise. . . . They should submit a separate
annual report, addressed directly to the stockholders and containing
their views on the major question which concerns the owners of the
enterprise: *ls the business showing the results for the outside stock-
holder which could be expected of it under proper management? If
not, why-and what should be done about it??
One can only imagine the consternation that Graham's proposal
would cause among the corporate cronies and golfing buddies who
constitute so many of today's “"independent" directors. (Let's not sug-
gest that it might send a shudder of fear down their spines, since most
independent directors do not appear to have a backbone.)
Whose money is it, anyway?
Now let's look at Graham's second criterion-whether management
acts in the best interests of outside investors. Managers have always
told shareholders that they-the managers-know best what to do with
? 1949 edition, p. 224.
Commentary on Chapter 19
503
the company's cash. Graham saw right through this managerial
malarkey:
A company's management may run the business well and yet not give
the outside stockholders the right results for them, because its effi-
ciency is confined to operations and does not extend to the best use
of the capital. The objective of efficient operation is to produce at low
cost and to find the most profitable articles to sell. Efficient finance
requires that the stockholders' money be working in forms most suit-
able to their interest. This is a question in which management, as such,
has little interest. Actually, it almost always wants as much capital from
the owners as it can possibly get, in order to minimize its own financial
problems. Thus the typical management will operate with more capital
than necessary, if the stockholders permit it-which they often do.8
In the late 1990s and into the early 2000s, the managements of
leading technology companies took this "Daddy-Knows-Best" attitude
to new extremes. The argument went like this: Why should you
demand a dividend when we can invest that cash for you and turn it
into a rising share price? Just look at the way our stock has been .
going up-doesn't that prove that we can turn your pennies into dollars
better than you can?
Incredibly, investors fell for it hook, line, and sinker. Daddy Knows
Best became such gospel that, by 1999, only 3.7% of the companies
that first sold their stock to the public that year paid a dividend-down
from an average of 72.1%o of all 1POs in the 1960s.9 Just look at how
8 1949 edition, p. 233.
9 Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French, "Disappearing Dividends: Chang-
ing Firm Characteristics or Lower Propensity to Pay?" Journal of Financial
Economics, vol. 60, no. 1, April, 2001, pp. 3-43, especially Table 1; see
also Elroy Dimson, Paul Marsh, and Mike Staunton, Triumph of the Opti-
mists (Princeton Univ. Press, Princeton, 2002), pp. 158-161. Interestingly,
the total dollar amount of dividends paid by U.S. stocks has risen since the
late 1970s, even after inflation-but the number of stocks that pay a dividend
has shrunk by nearly two-thirds. See Harry DeAngelo, Linda DeAngelo, and
Douglas J. Skinner, "Are Dividends Disappearing? Dividend Concentration
and the Consolidation of Earnings," available at: http://papers.ssrn.com.
504
Commentary on Chapter 19
the percentage of companies paying dividends (shown in the dark
area) has withered away:
FIGURE 19-1
Who Pays Dividends?
100%
90%
80%
 % of all U.S. stocks
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
1973-1977
1978-1982
1983-1987
1988-1992
1993-1998
1999
Annual averages
Never paid
 Former payers
Payers
Source: Eugene Fama and Kenneth French, “Disappearing Dividends,'
Journal of Financial Economics, April 2o01.
. But Daddy Knows Best was nothing but bunk. While some compa-
nies put their cash to good use, many more fell into two other cate-
gories: those that simply wasted it, and those that piled it up far faster
than they could possibly spend it. :
in the first group, Priceline.com wrote off $67 million in losses in
Commentary on Chapter 19
505
2000 after launching goofy ventures into.groceries and gasoline, while
Amazon.com destroyed at least $233 million of its shareholders'
wealth by "investing" in dot-bombs like Webvan and Ashford.com.10
And the two biggest losses so far on record-JDS Uniphase's $56 bil-
lion in 2001 and AOL Time Warner's $99 billion in 2002-occurred
after companies chose not to pay dividends but to merge with other
firms at a time when their shares were obscenely overvalued.1
In the second group, consider that by late 2001, Oracle Corp. had 
piled up $5 billion in cash. Cisco Systems had hoarded at least $7.5
billion. Microsoft had amassed a mountain of cash $38.2 billion high-
and rising by an average of more than $2 million per hour.'12 Just how
rainy a day was Bill Gates expecting, anyway?
So the anecdotal evidence clearly shows that many companies
10 Perhaps Benjamin Franklin, who is said to have carried his coins around in
an asbestos purse so that money wouldn't burn a hole in his pocket, could
have avoided this problem if he had been a CEO.
11 A study by BusinessWeek found that from 1995 through 2001, 61% out
of more than 3o0 large mergers ended up destroying weaith for the share-
holders of the acquiring company--a condition known as “the winner's
curse" or "buyer's remorse" And acquirers using stock rather than cash to
"Mergers: Why Most Big Deals Don't Pay Off," BusinessWeek, October 14,
2002, pp. 60-70.) A similar academic study found that acquisitions of pri-
vate companies and subsidiaries of public companies lead to positive stock
returns, but that acquisitions of entire public companies generate losses for
the winning bidder's shareholders. (Kathleen Fuller, Jeffry Netter, and Mike
Stegemoller, "What Do Returns to Acquiring Firms Tell Us?" The Journa/ of
Finance, vol. 57, no. 4, August, 2002, pp. 1763-1793.)
lousy returns if it just sits around. As Graham asserts, "So long as this sur-
plus cash remains with the company, the outside stockholder gets little ben-
efit from it" (1949 edition, p. 232). Indeed, by year-end 2002, Microsoft's
could find no good use for the cash its businesses were generating. As
Graham would say, Microsoft's operations were efficient, but its finance no
longer was. In a step toward redressing this problem, Microsoft declared in
early 2003 that it would begin paying a regular quarterly dividend.
506
Commentary on Chapter 19
don't know how to turn excess cash into extra returns. What does the
statistical evidence tell us?
Research by money managers Robert Arnott and Clifford Asness
found that when current dividends are low, future corporate earn-
ings also turn out to be low. And when current dividends are high,
so are future earnings. Over 10-year periods, the average rate of
earnings growth was 3.9 points greater when dividends were
high than when they were low.13
Columbia accounting professors Doron Nissim and Amir Ziv
found that companies that raise their dividend not only have better
stock returns but that "dividend increases are associated with
[higher] future profitability for at least four years after the dividend
change.* 14
nd ueo Kayn jeyi kes Kaun uaym buom ae shabeuew jsow 'uous ul
your cash to better use than you can. Paying out a dividend does not
guarantee great results, but it does improve the return of the typical
 s  o o  a     
before they can either squander it or squirrel it away.
Selling low, buyinG high
What about the argument that companies can put spare cash to bet-
-ndai Xuedwoo e uaum jsaeys umo jiaun xoeg busAng Xa asn bal
chases some of its stock, that reduces the number of its.shares
outstanding. Even if its net income stays flat, the company's earnings
13 Robert D. Arnott and Clifford S. Asness, "Surprise! Higher Dividends =
sn r i   si 
2003, pp. 70-87.
14 Doron Nissim and Amir Ziv, “Dividend Changes and Future Profitability"
The Journal of Finance, vol. 56, no. 6, December, 2001, pp. 2111-2133.
aniny jeybyy oi peal seseaiou! puepisip teyt saube sbuuee aunny uo sbu!
stock returns; see Shlomo Benartzi, Roni Michaely, and Richard Thaler, “Do
Changes in Dividends Signal the Future or the Past?" The Journal of
Finance, vol. 52, no. 3, July, 1997, pp. 1007-1034.
Commentary on Chapter 19
507
per share will rise, since its total earnings will be spread across fewer
shares. That, in turn, should lift the stock price. Better yet, unlike a div-
idend, a buyback is tax-free to investors who don't sell their shares.'$
Thus it increases the value of their stock without raising their tax bill.
And if the shares are cheap, then spending spare cash to repurchase
them is an excellent use of the company's capital.16
All this is true in theory. Unfortunately, in the real world, stock buy-
backs have come to serve a purpose that can only be described as
  s  y soo os  s  o s
part of executive compensation, many companies-especially in high-
tech industries-must issue hundreds of millions of shares to give to
the managers who exercise those stock options.'7 But that would jack
15 The tax reforms proposed by President George W. Bush in early 2003
would change the taxability of dividends, but the fate of this legislation was
not yet clear by press time.
repurchases, reducing them when stock prices were high and stepping
them up when prices were low. After the stock market crash of October 19,
1987, for example, 400 companies announced new buybacks over the next
12 days alone-while only 107 firms had announced buyback programs in
Murali Jagannathan, Clifford P. Stephens, and Michael S. Weisbach, "Finan-
cial Flexibility and the Choice Between Dividends and Stock Repurchases,
Journal of Financial Economics, vol. 57, no. 3, September, 2000, p. 362.
17 The stock options granted by a company to its executives and employees
give them the right (but not the obligation) to buy shares in the future at a
discounted price. That conversion of options to shares is called "exercising"
the options. The employees can then sell the shares at the current market
options may be exercised in a given year, the company must increase its
income would be spread across a much greater number of shares, reducing
its earnings per share. Therefore, the company typically feels compelled to
buy back other shares to cancet out the stock issued to the option holders.
In 1998, 63.5% of chief financial officers admitted that counteracting the
dilution from options was a major reason for repurchasing shares (see CFO
Forum, "The Buyback Track," Institutional Investor, July, 1998).
508
Commentary on Chapter 19
up the number of shares outstanding and shrink earnings per share.
To counteract that dilution, the companies must turn right back around
and repurchase millions of shares in the open market. By 2oo0, com-
panies were spending an astounding 41.8% of their total net income
to repurchase their own shares-up from 4.8% in 1980.18
Let's look at Oracle Corp., the software giant. Between June 1,
1999, and May 31, 2000, Oracle issued 101 milion shares of com-
mon stock to its senior executives and another 26 million to employ-
ees at a cost of $484 million. Meanwhile, to keep the exercise of
earlier stock options from diluting its earnings per share, Oracle spent
$5.3 billion-or 52% of its total revenues that year-to buy back 290.7
million shares of stock. Oracle issued the stock to insiders at an aver-
age price of $3.53 per share and repurchased it at an average price of
$18.26. Sell low, buy high: Is this any way to “enhance" shareholder
value?19
By 2002, Oracle's stock had fallen to less than half its peak in
