### 2000. Now that its shares were cheaper, did Oracle hasten to buy

back more stock? Between June 1, 2001, and May 31, 2002, Oracle
cut its repurchases. to $2.8 billion, apparently because its executives
and employees exercised fewer options that year. The same sell-low,
buy-high pattern is evident at dozens of other technology companies.
What's going on here? Two surprising factors are at work:
18 One of the main factors driving this change was the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission's decision, in 1982, to relax its previous restrictions
on share repurchases. See Gustavo Grullon and Roni Michaely, "Dividends,
Share Repurchases, and the Substitution Hypothesis, The Journal of
Finance, vol. 57, no. 4, August, 2002, pp. 1649-1684.
have a duty not just to make sure their stock is not undervalued, but also to
make sure it never gets overvalued. As he put it in Security Analysis (1934
shareholders includes the obligation to prevent-in so far as they are able-
the establishment of either absurdly high or unduly low prices for their secu-
rities:" Thus, enhancing shareholder value doesn't just mean making sure
that the stock price does not go too low; it also means ensuring that the
stock price does not go up to unjustifiable levels. lf only the executives of
Internet companies had heeded Graham's wisdom back in 1999!
Commentary on Chapter 19
509
Companies get a tax break when executives and employees exer
cise stock options (which the IRS considers a "compensation
expense" to the company).2 In its fiscal years from 2000 through
2002, for example, Oracle reaped $1.69 billion in tax benefits as
insiders cashed in on options. Sprint Corp. pocketed $678 million
in tax benefits as its executives and employees locked in $1.9 bil-
lion in options profits in 1999 and 2000.
A senior executive heavily compensated with stock options has a
vested interest in favoring stock buybacks over dividends. Why?
For technical reasons, options increase in value as the price fluc-
tuations of a stock grow more extreme. But dividends dampen the
volatility of a stock's price. So, if the managers increased the divi-
dend, they would lower the value of their own stock options.?1
No wonder CEOs would much rather buy back stock than pay divi-
dends-regardless of how overvalued the shares may be or how dras-
tically that may waste the resources of the outside shareholders.
20 Incredibly, although options are considered a compensation expense on a
company's tax returns, they are not counted as an expense on the income
statement in financial reports to shareholders. Investors can only hope that
accounting reforms will change this ludicrous practice.
21 See George W. Fenn and Nellie Liang, "Corporate Payout Policy and
Managerial Stock Incentives,' Journal of Financial Economics, vol. 60, no. 1,
April, 2001, pp. 45-72. Dividends make stocks less volatile by providing a
stream of current income that cushions shareholders against fluctuations in
market value. Several researchers have found that the average profitability of
companies with stock-buyback programs (but no cash dividends) is at least
twice as volatile as that of companies that pay dividends. Those more vari-
able earnings will, in general, lead to bouncier share prices, making the man-
agers' stock options more valuable-by creating more opportunities when
share prices will be temporarily high. Today, about two-thirds of executive
compensation comes in the form of options and other noncash awards;
thirty years ago, at least two-thirds of compensation came as cash.
510
Commentary on Chapter 19
KeePinG their optiONS oPeN
Finally, drowsy investors have given their companies free rein to over-
pay executives in ways that are simply unconscionable. 1n 1997, Steve
Jobs, the cofounder of Apple Computer Inc., returned to the company
as its “interim" chief executive officer. Already a wealthy man, Jobs
insisted on taking a cash salary of $1 per year. At year-end 1999, to
thank Jobs for serving as CEO "for the previous 2 1/2 years without
compensation, the board presented him with his very own Gulfstream
jet, at a cost to. the company of a mere $9o million. The next month
Jobs agreed to drop "interim" from his job title, and the board
rewarded him with options on 20 million shares. (Until then, Jobs had
held a grand total of two shares of Apple stock.)
managers with outside investors. If you are. an outside Apple share-
holder, you want its managers to be rewarded only if Apple's stock
earns superior returns. Nothing else could possibly be fair to you and
the other owners of the company. But, as John Bogle, former chairman.
of the Vanguard funds, points out, nearly
y all managers sell the stock
they receive immediately after exercising tl
their options. How could
dumping millions of shares for an instant profit possibly align their
interests with those of the company's loyal long-term shareholders?
In Jobs' case, if Apple stock rises by just 5%o annually through the
beginning of 2010, he will be able to cash in his options for $548.3
million. In other words, even if Apple's stock earns no better than half
the long-term average return of the overall stock market, Jobs will land
a half-a-billion dollar windfall.?2 Does that align his interests with those
of Apple's shareholders-or malign the trust that Apple's shareholders
have placed in the board of directors?
Reading proxy statements vigilantly, the intelligent owner will vote
against any executive compensation plan that uses option grants to
turn more than 3% of the company's shares outstanding over to the
grants contingent on a fair and enduring measure of superior resuits-
22 Apple Computer Inc. proxy statement for April 2001 annual meeting. p. 8
(availabie at www.sec.gov). Jobs' option grant and share ownership are
adjusted for a two-for-one share split.
Commentary on Chapter 19
511
say, outperforming the average stock in the same industry for a period
of at least five years. No CEO ever deserves to make himself rich if he
has produced poor results for you.
A FINaL THOUGHT
Let's go back to Graham's suggestion that every company's indepen-
dent board members should have to report to the shareholders in writ-
ing on whether the business is properly managed on behalf of its true
owners. What if the independent directors also had to justify the
company's policies on dividends and share repurchases? What if they
had to describe exactly how they determined that the company's sen-
ior management was not overpaid? And what if every investor became
an intelligent owner and actually read that report?
