### 1. The Superinvestors of Graham-and-Doddsville

by Warren E. Buffett
EDITOR's NOTE: This article is an edited transcript of a talk given at
Columbia UIniversity in 1984 commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of
Security Analysis, written by Benjamin Graham and David L. Dodd.
This specialized volume first introduced the ideas later popularized in
The Intelligent Investor. Buffett's essay offers a fascinating study of how
Graham's disciples have used Graham's value investing approach to real-
ize phenomenal success in the stock market.
Is the Graham and Dodd "look for values with a significant
margin of safety relative to prices" approach to security analysis
out of date? Many of the professors who write textbooks today say
yes. They argue that the stock market is efficient; that is, that stock
prices reflect everything that is known about a company's
prospects and about the state of the economy. There are no under-
valued stocks, these theorists argue, because there are smart secu-
rity analysts who utilize all available information to ensure
unfailingly appropriate prices. Investors who seem to beat the mar-
e i a s ,  r a   a 
information, this sort of investment adeptness is ruled out," writes
one of today's textbook authors.
Well, maybe. But I want to present to you a group of investors
who have, year in and year out, beaten the Standard & Poor's 500
stock index. The hypothesis that they do this by pure chance is at .
537
538
Appendixes
least worth examining. Crucial to this examination is the fact that
these winners were all well known to me and pre-identified as
superior investors, the most recent identification occurring over fif-
teen years ago. Absent this condition-that is, if I had just recently
searched among thousands of records to select a few names for you
this morning—I would advise you to stop reading right here. I
should add that all these records have been audited. And I should
further add that I have known many of those who have invested
with these managers, and the checks received by those participants
over the years have matched the stated records.
Before we begin this examination, I would like you to imagine a
national coin-flipping contest. Let's assume we get 225 million
Americans up tomorrow morning and we ask them all to wager a
dollar. They go out in the morning at sunrise, and they all call the
flip of a coin. If they call correctly, they win a dollar from those who
called wrong. Each day the losers drop out, and on the subsequent
day the stakes build as all previous winnings are put on the line.
After ten flips on ten mornings, t
there  will  be  approximately
220,000 people in the United States who have correctly called ten
flips in a row. They each will have won a little over $1,000.
Now this group will
l probably start getting a little puffed up
about this, human nature being what it is. They may try to be mod-
est, but at cocktail parties they will occasionally admit to attractive
members of the opposite sex what their technique is, and what
marvelous insights they bring to the field of flipping.
Assuming that the winners are getting the appropriate rewards
from the losers, in another ten days we will have 215 people who
have successfully called their coin flips 20 times in a row and who,
by this exercise, each have turned one dollar into a little over
$1 million. $225 million would have been lost, $225 million would
have been won.
By then, this group will really lose their heads. They will proba-
bly write books on "How I Turned a Dollar into a Million in
Twenty
1 Days Working Thirty Seconds a Morning." Worse yet,
they'll probably start jetting around the country attending semi-
nars on efficient coin-flipping and tackling skeptical professors
with, "If it can't be done, why are there 215 of us?"
But then some business school professor will
1  probably be
rude enough to bring up the fact that if 225 million orangutans
Appendixes
539
had engaged in a similar exercise, the results would be much
the same—215 egotistical orangutans with 20 straight winning
flips.
I would argue, however, that there are some important differ-
ences in the examples I am going to present. For one thing, if (a)
you had taken 225 million orangutans distributed roughly as the
U.S. population is; if (b) 215 winners were left after 20 days; and if
(c) you found that 40 came from a particular zoo in Omaha, you
would be pretty sure you were on to something. So you would
probably go out and ask the zookeeper about what he's feeding
them, whether they had special exercises, what books they read,
and who knows what else. That is, if you found any really extraor-
dinary concentrations of success, you might want to see if you
could identify concentrations of unusual characteristics that might
be causal factors.
Scientific inquiry naturally follows such a pattern. If you were
trying to analyze possible causes of a rare type of cancer-with,
say, 1,500 cases a year in the United States-and you found that 400
of them occurred in some little mining town in Montana, you
would get very interested in the water there, or the occupation of
those afflicted, or other variables. You know that it's not random
chance that 400 come from a small area. You would not necessarily
know the causal factors, but you would know where to search.
I submit to you that there are ways of defining an origin other
than geography. In addition to geographical origins, there can be
what I call an intellectual origin. I think you will find that a dispro-
portionate number of successful coin-flippers in the investment
world came from a very small intellectual village that could be
called Graham-and-Doddsville. A concentration of winners that
simply cannot be explained by chance can be traced to this particu-
lar intellectual village.
Conditions could exist that would make even that concentration
unimportant. Perhaps 100 people were simply imitating the coin-
flipping call of some terribly persuasive personality. When he
called heads, 100 followers automatically called that coin the same
way. If the leader was part of the 215 left at the end, the fact that
100 came from the same intellectual origin would mean nothing.
You would simply be identifying one case as a hundred cases. Sim-
s sd s e  a o  s s 
540
Appendixes
and every family in the United States conveniently consisted of ten
members. Further assume that the patriarchal culture was So
strong that, when the 225 million people went out the first day,
every member of the family identified with the father's call. Now,
at the end of the 20-day period, you would have 215 winners, and
you would find that they came from only 21.5 families. Some naive
types might say that this indicates an enormous hereditary factor
as an explanation of successful coin-flipping. But, of course, it
would have no significance at all because it would simply mean
that you didn't have 215 individual winners, but rather 21.5 ran-
domly distributed families who were winners.
In this group of successful investors that I want to consider,
there has been a common intellectual patriarch, Ben Graham. But
the children who left the house of this intellectual patriarch have
ent places and bought and sold different stocks and companies, yet
they have had a combined record that simply can't be explained by
random chance. It certainly cannot be explained by the fact that
they are all calling flips identically because a leader is signaling the
calls to make. The patriarch has merely set forth the intellectual
theory for making coin-calling decisions, but each student has
decided on his own manner of applying the theory.
The common intellectual .theme of the investors from Graham-
and-Doddsville is this: they search for discrepancies between the
value of a business and the price of small pieces of that business in
the market. Essentially, they exploit those discrepancies without
the efficient market theorist's concern as to whether the stocks are
bought on Monday or Thursday, or whether it is January or July,
etc. Incidentally, when businessmen buy businesses—which is just
what our Graham & Dodd investors are doing
throughthe
medium of marketable stocks—I doubt that many are cranking
into their purchase decision the day of the week or the month in
which the transaction is going to occur. If it doesn't make any dif-
ference whether all of a business is being bought on a Monday or a
Friday, I am baffled why academicians invest extensive time and
effort to see whether it makes a difference when buying small
pieces of those same businesses. Our Graham & Dodd investors,
needless to say, do not discuss beta, the capital asset pricing model,
or covariance in returns among securities. These are not subjects of
Appendixes
541
any interest to them. In fact, most of them would have difficulty
defining those terms. The investors simply focus on two variables:
price and value.
I always find it extraordinary that so many studies are made of
price and volume behavior, the stuff of chartists. Can you imagine
buying an entire business simply because the price of the business
had been marked up substantially last week and the week before?
Of course, the reason a lot of studies are made of these price and
volume variables is that now, in the age of computers, there are
almost endless data available about them. It isn't necessarily
because such studies have any utility; it's simply that the data are
there and academicians have worked hard to learn the mathemati-
cal skills needed to manipulate them. Once these skills are
acquired, it seems sinful not to use them, even if the usage has no
utility or negative utility. As a friend said, to a man with a hammer,
everything looks like a nail.
 I think the group that we have identified by a common intellec-
tual home is worthy of study. Incidentally, despite all the academic
studies of the influence of such variables as price, volume, season-
ality, capitalization size, etc., upon stock performance, no interest
has been evidenced in studying the methods of this unusual con-
centration of value-oriented winners.
I begin this study of results by going back to a group of four of
us who worked at Graham-Newman Corporation from 1954
         
names from among thousands. I offered to go to work at Graham-
Newman for nothing after I took Ben Graham's class, but he turned
me down as overvalued. He took this value stuff very seriously!
After much pestering he finally hired me. There were three part-
ners and four of us at the "peasant" level. All four left between
1955 and 1957 when the firm was wound up, and it's possible to
trace the record of three.
The first example (see Table 1, pages 549-550) is that of Walter
Schloss. Walter never went to college, but took a course from Ben
Graham at night at the New York Institute of Finance. Walter left
Graham-Newman in 1955 and achieved the record shown here
over 28 years.
-m  r  I -- , r s 
wrote about him in Supermoney (1972):
542
Appendixes
He has no connections or access to useful information. Practi-
cally no one in Wall Street knows him and he is not fed any ideas.
He looks up the numbers in the manuals and sends for the annual
reports, and that's about it.
 In introducing me to [Schloss] Warren had also, to my mind,
described himself. "He never forgets that he is handling other
people's money and this reinforces his normal strong aversion to
loss." He has total integrity and a realistic picture of himself.
Money is real to him and stocks are real—and from this flows an
attraction to the "margin of safety" principle.
Walter has diversified enormously, owning well over 100 stocks
currently. He knows how to identify securities that sell at consider-
ably less than their value to a private. owner. And that's all he does.
He doesn't worry about whether it's January, he doesn't worry
about whether it's Monday, he doesn't worry about whether it's an
election year He simply says, if a business is worth a dollar and I
can buy it for 40 cents, something good may happen to me. And he
does it over and over and over again. He owns many more stocks
than I do--and is far less interested in the underlying nature of the
business: I don't seem to have very much influence on Walter.
That's one of his strengths; no one has much influence on him.
The second case is Tom Knapp, who also worked at. Graham-
Newman with me. Tom was a chemistry major at Princeton before
the war; when he came back from the war, he was a beach bum.
And then one day he read that Dave Dodd was giving a night
course in investments at Columbia. Tom took it on a noncredit
basis, and he got so interested in the subject from taking that
course that he came up and enrolled at Columbia Business School,
where he got the MBA degree. He took Dodd's course again, and
took Ben Graham's course. Incidentally, 35 years later I called Tom
to ascertain some of the facts involved here and I found him on the
beach again. The only difference is that now he owns the beach!
In 1968 Tom Knapp and Ed Anderson, also a Graham disciple,
along with one or two other fellows of similar persuasion, formed
Tweedy, Browne Partners, and their investment results appear in
Table 2. Tweedy, Browne built that record with very wide diversifi-
cation. They occasionally bought control of businesses, but the
record of the passive investments is equal to the record of the con-
trol investments.
Appendixes
543
Table 3 describes the third member of the group who formed
Buffett Partnership in 1957. The best thing he did was to quit in
