### 2. Important Rules Concerning Taxability of Investment

Income and Security Transactions (in 1972)
transactions, the following document is presented here for historical
purposes only. When first written by Benjamin Graham in 1972, all the
information therein was correct. However, intervening developments
have rendered this document inaccurate for today's purposes. Follow-
ing Graham's original Appendix 2 is a revised and updated version of
"The Basics of Investment Taxation, which brings the reader up-to-
date on the relevant rules.
Rule 1-——Interest and Dividends
Interest and dividends are taxable as ordinary income except (a)
income received from state, municipal, and similar obligations)
which are free from Federal tax but may be subject to state tax, (b)
dividends representing a return of capital, (c) certain dividends
paid by investment companies (see below), and (d) the first $100 of
ordinary domestic-corporation dividends.
Rule 2-—Capital Gains and Losses
Short-term capital gains and losses are merged to obtain net
short-term capital gain or loss. Long-term capital
l gains and losses
are merged to obtain the net long-term capital
 gain or loss. If the
net short-term capital gain exceeds the net long-term capital loss,
100 per cent of such excess shall be included in income. The maxi-
mum tax thereon is 25% up to $50,000 of such gains and 35% on the
balance.
A net capital loss (the amount exceeding capital gains) is
deductible from ordinary income to a maximum of $1,000 in the
current year and in each of the next five years. Alternatively,
(Carry-overs of losses taken before 1970 are treated more liberally
than later losses.)
Note Concerning "Regulated Investment Companies'
Most investment funds ("investment companies") take advan-
tage of special provisions of the tax law, which enable them to be
562
Appendixes
taxed substantially as partnerships. Thus if they make long-term
 s an n ss    r a s
as long-term gains. These carry a lower tax rate than ordinary divi-
for the account of its shareholders and then retain the balance of
the capital gains without distributing them as capital-gain divi-
dends.
