### 3. The Basics of Investment Taxation (Updated as of 2003)

Interest and Dividends
except (a) interest received from municipal bonds, which is free from
Federal income tax but may be subject to state tax, (b) dividends rep-
resenting a return of capital, and (c) long-term capital-gain distribu-
bonds, even within a mutual fund, may subject you to the Federal alter-
native minimum tax.
Capital Gains and Losses
Short-term capital gains and losses are merged to obtain net short-
term capital gain or loss. Long-term capital gains and losses are
merged to determine your net long-term capital gain or loss. If your net
excess is counted as ordinary income. If there is a net long-term capi-
tal gain, it is taxed at the favorable capitai gains rate, generally 20%-
 a e sd s  t  l le 
200o, and held for more than five years.
A net capital loss is deductible from ordinary income to a maxim-
um of $3,0oo in the current year. Any capital losses in excess of
gains.
Mutual Funds
As "regulated investment companies, nearly all mutual funds take
advantage of special provisions of the tax law that exempt them from
Appendixes
563
corporate income tax. After selling long-term holdings, mutual funds
can distribute the profits as "capital-gain dividends,' which their share-
holders treat as long-term gains. These are taxed at a lower rate (gen-
erally 20%) than ordinary dividends (up to 39%). You should generaily
avoid making large new investments during the fourth quarter of each
year, when these capital-gain distributions are usually distributed; oth-
erwise you will incur tax for a gain earned by the fund before you even
Owned it.
