### 4. The New Speculation in Common Stocks'

What I shall have to say will reflect the spending of many years
in Wall Street, with their attendant varieties of experience. This has
included the recurrent advent of new conditions, or a new atmo-
sphere, which challenge the value of experience itself. It is true that
one of the elements that distinguish economics, finance, and secu--
rity analysis from other practical disciplines is the uncertain valid-
ity of past phenomena as a guide to the present and future. Yet we
have no right to reject the lessons of the past until we have at least
studied and understood them. My address today is an effort
toward such understanding in a limited field--in particular, an
endeavor to point out some contrasting relationships between the
present and the past in our underlying attitudes toward invest-
ment and speculation in common stocks.
Let me start with a summary of my thesis. In the past the specu-
lative elements of a common stock resided almost exclusively in
the company itself; they were due to uncertainties, or fluctuating
elements, or downright weaknesses in the industry, or the corpora-
tion's individual setup. These elements of speculation still exist, of
course; but it may be said that they have been sensibly diminished
by a number of long-term developments to which I shall refer. But
in revenge a new and major element of speculation has been intro-
duced into the common-stock arena from outside the companies. It
comes from the attitude and viewpoint of the stock-buying public
and their advisers-—-chiefly us security analysts. This attitude may
be described in a phrase: primary emphasis upon future expecta-
tions.
Nothing will appear more logical and natural to this audience
than the idea that a common stock should be valued and priced
564
Appendixes
primarily on the basis of the company's expected future perfor-
mance. Yet this simple-appearing concept carries with it a number
of paradoxes and pitfalls. For one thing, it obliterates a good part of
the older, well-established distinctions between investment and
out and saw future developments coming before other people did.
But today, if the investor is shrewd or well advised, he too must
have his lookout on the future, or rather he mounts into a common
lookout where he rubs elbows with the speculator.
Secondly, we find that, for the most part, companies with the
best investment characteristics-i.e., the best credit rating-—-are the
 s a s e e     s
their common stocks, since everyone assumes they are guaranteed
a brilliant future. Thirdly, the concept of future prospects, and par-
ticularly of continued growth in the future, invites the application
of formulas out of higher mathematics to establish the present
value of the favored issues. But the combination of precise formu-
las with highly imprecise assumptions can be used to establish, or
rather to justify, practically any value one wishes, however high,
for a really outstanding.issue. But, paradoxically, that very fact on
close examination will be seen to imply that no one value, or rea-
sonably narrow range of values, can be counted on to establish and
maintain itself for a given growth company; hence at times the
market may conceivably value the growth component at a strik-
ingly low figure.
Returning to my distinction between the older and newer spec-
ulative elemients in common stock, we might characterize them by
two outlandish but convenient words, viz.: endogenous and exoge-
stock, as distinguished from an investment stock, by some data
relating to American Can and Pennsylvania Railroad in 1911-1913.
(These appear in Benjamin Graham and David L. Dodd, Security
Analysis, McGraw-Hill, 1940, pp. 2-3.)
o paa ,asn, po a ad a s  s u
between 53 and 65, 0r between 12.2 and 15 times its average earn-
 ings for the period. It showed steady profits, was paying a reliable
$3 dividend, and investors were sure that it was backed by well
over its par of $50 in tangible assets. By contrast, the price of Amer-
Appendixes
565
ican Can ranged between 9 and 47; its earnings between 7 cents
and $8.86; the ratio of price to the three-year average earnings
moved between 1.9 times and 10 times; it paid no dividend at all;
and sophisticated investors were well aware that the $100 par
value  of the  common  represented  nothing
g but undisclosed
"water," since the preferred issue exceeded the tangible assets
available for it. Thus American Can common was a representative
speculative issue, because American Can Company was then a
speculatively capitalized enterprise in a fluctuating and uncertain
industry. Actually, American Can had a far more brilliant long-
term future than Pennsylvania Railroad; but not only was this fact
not suspected by investors or speculators in those days, but even if
it had been it would probably have been put aside by the investors
as basically irrelevant to investment policies and programs in the
years 1911-1913.
Now, to expose you to the development through time of the
importance of long-term prospects for investments. I should like to
use as my example our most spectacular giant industrial enter-
prise—none other than International Business Machines, which
  i  s p dn s an p a i
sales. May I introduce one or two autobiographical notes here, in
order to inject a little of the personal touch into what otherwise
would be an excursion into cold figures? In 1912 I had left college
for a term to take charge of a research project for U.S. Express Com-
pany. We set out to find the effect on revenues of a proposed revo-
lutionary new system of computing express rates. For this purpose
we used the so-called Hollerith machines, leased out by
 the then
Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company. They comprised card
punches, card sorters, and tabulators—tools almost unknown to
businessmen, then, and having their chief application in the Cen-
sus Bureau. I entered Wall Street in 1914, and the next year the
bonds and common stock of C.-T.-R. Company were listed on the
New York Stock Exchange. Well, I had a kind of sentimental inter-
est in that enterprise, and besides I considered myself a sort of
technological expert on their products, being one of the few finan-
cial people who had seen and used them. So early in 1916 I went to
the head of my firm, known as Mr. A. N., and pointed out to him
that C.-T.-R. stock was selling in the middle 40s (for 105,000
shares); that it had earned $6.50 in 1915; that its book value--
566
Appendixes
including, to be sure, some nonsegregated intangibles-was $130;
that it had started a $3 dividend; and that I thought rather highly of
the company's products and prospects. Mr. A. N. looked at me
a o Audon y uou pou op, 'a pis ,u, d
again. I would not touch it with a ten-foot pole. [His favorite
expression.] Its 6 per cent bonds are selling in the low 80s and they
are no good. So how can the stock be any good? Everybody knows
was the ultimate of condemnation. It meant that the asset account
of the balance sheet was fictitious. Many industrial companies-
S一
notably U.S. Steel—-despite their $100 par, represented nothing but
water, concealed in a written-up plant account. Since they had
'adsd ang p amod aa inq  q o ,ou,
no self-respecting investor would give them a second thought.)
I returned to my statistician's cubbyhole, a chastened young
man. Mr. A. N. was not only
1 experienced and successful, but
extremely shrewd as well. So much was I impressed by his sweep-
ing
 condemnation  of  Computing-Tabulating-Recording  that   I
never bought a share of it in my life, not even after its name was
changed to International Business Machines in 1926.
Now let us take a look at the same company with its new name
in 1926, a year of pretty high stock markets. At that time it first
revealed the good-will item in its balance sheet, in the rather large
sum of $13.6 million. A. N. had been right. Practically every dollar
of the s0-called equity behind the common in 1915 had been noth-
ing but water. However, since that time the company had made an
impressive record under the direction of T. L. Watson, Sr. Its net
 1  2  o  1
percentage gain than it was to make in any subsequent eleven-year
     n n e dn a u he 
had split it 3.6 for one. It had established a $3 dividend rate for the
new stock, while earnings were $6.39 thereon. You might have
expected the 1926 stock market to have been pretty enthusiastic
about a company with such a growth history and so strong a trade
position. Let us see. The price range for that year was 31 low, 59
high. At the average of 45 it was selling at the same 7-times multi-
plier of earnings and the same 6.7 per cent dividend yield as it had
done in 1915. At its low of 31 it was not far in excess of its tangible
book value, and in that respect was far more conservatively priced
than eleven years earlier.
Appendixes
567
These data illustrate, as well as any can, the persistence of the
old-time investment viewpoint until the culminating years of the
bull market of the 1920s. What has happened since then can be
summarized by using ten-year intervals in the history of IBM. In
1936 net expanded to twice the 1926 figures, and the average multi-
plier rose from 7 to 17%. From 1936 to 1946 the gain was 2% times,
but the average multiplier in 1946 remained at 17%. Then the pace
accelerated. The 1956 net was nearly 4 times that of 1946, and the
average multiplier rose to 32%. Last year, with a further gain in net,
the multiplier rose again to an average of 42, if we do not count the
unconsolidated equity in the foreign subsidiary.
 When we examine these recent price figures with care we see
some interesting analogies and contrasts with those of forty years
earlier. The one-time scandalous water, so prevalent in the balance
sheets of industrial companies, has all been squeezed out--first by
disclosure and then by writeoffs. But a different kind of water has
been put back into the valuation by the stock market-—-by investors
and speculators themselves. When IBM now sells at 7 times its
book value, instead of 7 times earnings, the effect is practically the
same as if it had no book value at all. Or the small book-value por-
tion can be considered as a sort of minor preferred-stock compo-
nent of the price, the rest representing exactly the same sort of
commitment as the old-time speculator made when he bought
Woolworth or U.S. Steel common entirely for their earning power
and future prospects.
It is worth remarking, in passing, that in the thirty years which
saw IBM transformed from a 7-times earnings to a. 40-times earn-
ings enterprise, many of what I have called the endogenous specu-
lative aspects of our large industrial companies have tended to
disappear, or at least to diminish greatly. Their financial positions
are firm, their capital structures conservative: they are managed far
more expertly, and even more honestly, than before. Furthermore,
the requirements of complete disclosure have removed one of the
 a  sa  s s 
ignorance and mystery.
Another personal digression here. In my early years in the Street
one of the favorite mystery stocks was Consolidated Gas of New
York, now. Consolidated Edison. It owned as a subsidiary the prof-
itable New York Edison Company, but it reported only dividends
received from this source, not its full earnings. The unreported Edi-
568
Appendixes
 t ,,'a p,  pue s a pndns sua o
surprise I discovered that these hush-hush figures were actually on
file each year with the Public Service Commission of the state. It
Was a simple matter to consult the records and to present the true
earnings of Consolidated Gas in a magazine article. (Incidentally.
the addition to profits was not spectacular.) One of my older
friends said to me then: "Ben, you may think you are a great guy to
supply those missing figures, but Wall Street is going to thank you
for nothing. Consolidated Gas with the mystery is both more inter-
esting and more valuable than ex-mystery. You youngsters who
want to stick your noses into everything are going to ruin Wall
Street."
. It is true that the three M's which then supplied so much fuel to
the speculative fires have now all but disappeared. These were
Mystery, Manipulation, and (thin) Margins. But we security ana-
lysts have ourselves been creating valuation approaches. which are
so speculative in themselves as to pretty well take the place of
now-none other than  Minnesota  Mining and  Manufacturing
Company---and does not this common stock illustrate perfectly the
new speculation as contrasted with the old? Consider a few f
fig
ures. When M. M. & M. common sold at 101 last year the market
was valuing it at 44 times 1956 earnings, which happened to show
no increase to speak of in 1957. The enterprise itself was valued at
$1.7 billion, of which $200 million was covered by net assets, and a
cool $1% billion represented the market's appraisal of "good will."
We do not know the process of calculation by which that valuation
of good will was arrived at; we do know that a few months later
the market revised this appraisal downward by some $450 million,
rately the intangible component of a splendid company such as
this. It follows as a kind of mathematical law that the more impor-
tant the good will or future earning-power factor the more uncer-
tain becomes the true value of the enterprise, and therefore the
more speculative inherently the common stock.
It may be well to recognize a vital difference that has developed
in the valuation of these intangible factors, when we compare ear-
lier times with today. A generation or more ago it was the standard
rule, recognized both in average stock prices and in formal or legal
Appendixes
569
valuations, that intangibles were to be appraised on a more conser-
      s   
required to earn between 6 per cent and 8 per cent on its tangible
assets, represented typically
 by bonds and preferred stock; but its
excess earnings, or the intangible assets they gave rise to, would be
valued on, say, a 15 per cent basis. (You will find approximately
these ratios in the initial offering of Woolworth preferred and com-
mon stock in 1911, and in numerous others.) But what has hap-
pened since the 1920s? Essentially the exact reverse of these
relationships may now be seen. A company must now typically
earn about 10 per cent on its common equity to have it sell in the
average market at full book value. But its excess earnings, above 10
per cent on capital, are usually valued more liberally, or at a higher
multiplier, than the base earnings required to support the book
value in the market. Thus a company earning 15 per cent on the
equity may well sell at 13% times earnings, or twice its net assets.
This would mean that the first 10 per cent earned on capital is val-
ued at only 10 times, but the next 5 per cent--what used to be
called the "excess'--is actually valued at 20 times.
Now there is a logical reason for this reversal in valuation proce-
dure, which is related to the newer emphasis on growth expecta-
liberal appraisals not only because of the good profitability itself,
and the relative stability associated with it, but perhaps even more
cogently because high earnings on capital generally
Y go hand in
hand with a good growth record and prospects. Thus what is really
paid for nowadays in the case of highly profitable companies is not
the good will in the old and restricted sense of an established name
and a profitable business, but rather their assumed superior expec-
tations of increased profits in the future.
This brings me to one or two additional mathematical aspects of
the new attitude toward common-stock valuations, which I shall
touch on merely in the form of brief suggestions. If, as many tests
show, the earnings multiplier tends to increase with profitability-
i.e., as the rate of return on book value increases-then the arith-
metical consequence of this feature is that value tends to increase
directly as the square of the earnings, but inversely the book value.
Thus in an important and very real sense tangible assets have
become a drag on average market value rather than a source
570
Appendixes
thereof. Take a far from extreme illustration. If Company A earns $4
a share on a $20 book value, and Company B also $4 a share on
$100 book value, Company A is almost certain to sell at a higher
multiplier, and hence at higher price than Company Bsay $60 for
Company A shares and $35 for Company B shares. Thus it would.
not be inexact to declare that the $80 per share of greater assets for
Company B are responsible for the $25 per share lower market
price, since the earnings per share are assumed to be equal.
 p  s   e   
ship between mathematics and the new approach to stock values.
Given the three ingredients of (a) optimistic assimptions as to the
rate of earnings growth, (b) a sufficiently long projection of this
growth into the future, and (c) the miraculous workings of com-
pound interest-lo! the security analyst is supplied with a new
kind of philosopher's stone which can produce or justify any
desired valuation for a really
1 "good stock." I have commented in a
recent article in the Analysts' Journal on the vogue of higher mathe-
matics in bull markets, and quoted David Durand's exposition of
the striking analogy between value calculations of growth stocks
and the famous Petersburg Paradox, which has challenged and
confused mathematicians for more than two hundred years. The
point I want to make here is that there is a special paradox in the
relationship between mathematics and investment attitudes on
common stocks, which is this: Mathematics is ordinarily consid-
ered as producing precise and dependable results; but in the stock
market the more elaborate and abstruse the mathematics the more
uncertain and speculative are the conclusions we draw therefrom.
In forty-four years of Wall Street experience and study I have never
seen dependable calculations made about common-stock values, or
related investment policies, that went beyond simple arithmetic or
the most elementary a
algebra. Whenever calculus is brought in,
or higher algebra, you could take it as a warning signal that the
operator was trying
g to substitute theory f
for experience, and usu-
ally also to give to speculation the deceptive guise of investment.
The older ideas of common-stock investment may seem quite
naive to the sophisticated security analyst of today. The great
emphasis was always on what we now call the defensive aspects of
the company or issuemainly the assurance that it would con-
tinue its dividend unreduced in bad times. Thus the strong rail-
Appendixes
571
roads, which constituted the standard investment commons of fifty
years ago, were actually regarded in very much the same way as
the public-utility commons in recent years. If the past record indi-
          
was made to anticipate adverse changes of an underlying character
in the future. But, conversely, especially favorable future prospects
were regarded by shrewd investors as something to look for but
not to pay for.
In effect this meant that the investor did not have to pay any-
thing substantial for superior long-term prospects. He got these,
virtually without extra cost, as a reward for his own superior intel-
ligence and judgment in picking the best rather than the merely
good companies. For common stocks with the same financial
strength, past earnings record, and dividend stability all sold at
about the same dividend yield.
This was indeed a shortsighted point of view, but it had the
great advantage of making common-stock investment in the old
days not only simple but also basically sound and highly prof-
itable. Let me return for the last time to a personal note. Some-
where around 1920 our firm distributed a series of little pamphlets
entitled Lessons for Investors. Of course it took a brash analyst in his
middle twenties like myself to hit on so smug and presumptuous a
title. But in one of the papers I made the casual statement that "if a
, nods poo e ose si h ssaui pooo e si yos uo
For, reasoned I, if a common stock was so sound that it carried very
little risk of loss it must ordinarily be so good as to possess excel-
lent chances for future gains. Now this was a perfectly true and
even valuable discovery, but it was true only because nobody paid
any attention to it. Some years .later, when the public woke up to
the historical merits of common stocks as long-term investments,
they soon ceased to have any such merit, because the public's
enthusiasm created price levels which deprived them of their built-
in margin of safety, and thus drove them out of the investment
class. Then, of course, the pendulum swung to the other extreme,
and we soon saw one of the most respected authorities declaring
(in 1931) that no common stock could ever be an investment.
When we view this long-range experience in perspective we
toward capital gains as contrasted with income. It seems a truism
572
Appendixes
to say that the old-time common-stock investor was not much
interested in capital gains. He bought almost entirely for safety and
income, and let the speculator concern himself with price apprecia-
tion. Today we are likely to say that the more experienced and
shrewd the investor, the less attention he pays to dividend returns,
and the more heavily his interest centers on long-term apprecia-
 nq d  d     
 p      s 
tion he was virtually guaranteeing to himself that he would have it,
at least in the field of industrial stocks. And, conversely, today's
investor is so concerned with anticipating the future that he is
already paying handsomely for it in advance. Thus what he has
 ddr ane r ar pue ns n os m pad
still not bring him any profit. If it should fail to materialize to the
degree expected he may in fact be faced with a serious temporary
and perhaps even permanent loss.
What lessons-again using the pretentious title of my 1920 pam-
phlet—can'the analyst of 1958 learn from this linking c
of past with
current attitudes? Not much of value, one is inclined to say. We can
look back nostalgically to the good old days when we paid only for
the present and could get the future for nothing—an "all this and
Heaven too" combination. Shaking our heads sadly we mutter,
analysts eaten of the tree of knowledge of good and evil prospects?
By so doing have they not permanently expelled themselves from
that Eden where promising common stocks at reasonable prices
could be plucked off the bushes? Are we doomed always to run the
risk either of paying unreasonably high prices for good quality and
prospects, or of getting poor quality and prospects when we pay
what seems a reasonable price?
It certainly looks that way. Yet one cannot be sure even of that
pessimistic dilemma. Recently, I did a little research in the long-
term history of that towering enterprise, General Electric -stimu-
lated by the arresting chart of fifty-nine years of earnings and
dividends appearing in their recently published 1957 Report. These
figures are not without their surprises for the knowledgeable ana-
         s     
was fairly modest and quite irregular. The 1946 earnings, per share
adjusted, were only 30 per cent higher than in 1902—52 cents ver-
Appendixes
573
sus 40 cents-and in no year of this period were the 1902 earnings
as much as doubled. Yet the price-earnings ratio rose from 9 times
in 1910 and 1916 to 29 times in 1936 and again in 1946. One might
say, of course, that the 1946 multiplier at least showed the well-
known prescience of shrewd investors. We analysts were able to
foresee then the really brilliant period of growth that was looming
ahead in the next decade. Maybe so. But some of you remember
that the next year, 1947, which established an impressive new high
for G.E.'s per-share earnings, was marked also by an extraordinary
fall in the price-earnings ratio. At its low of 32 (before the 3-for-1
split) G.E. actually sold again at only 9 times its current earnings
and its average price for the year was only about 10 times earnings.
Our crystal ball certainly clouded over in the short space of twelve
months.
This striking reversal took place only eleven years ago. It casts
some little doubt in my mind as to the complete dependability of
the popular belief among analysts that prominent and promising
companies will now always sell at high price-earnings ratios-that
this is a fundamental fact of life for investors and they may as well
accept and like it. I have no desire at all to be dogmatic on this
point. All I can say is that it is not settled in my mind, and each of
you must seek to settle it for yourself.
But in my concluding remarks I can say something definite
about the structure of the market for various types of common
stocks, in terms of their investment and speculative characteristics.
In the old days the investment character of a common stock was
more or less the same as, or proportionate with, that of the enter-
 prise itself, as measured quite well by its credit rating. The lower
the yield on its bonds or preferred, the more likely was the com-
mon to meet all the criteria for a satisfactory investment, and the
smaller the element of speculation involved in its purchase. This
relationship, between the speculative ranking of the common and
the investment rating of the company, could be graphically
   sp  s e se n d sxa
right. But nowadays I would describe the graph as U-shaped. At
the left, where the company itself is speculative and its credit low,
the common stock is of course highly speculative, just as it has
always been in the past. At the right extremity, however, where the
company has the highest credit rating because both its past record
574
Appendixes
and future prospects are most impressive, we find that the stock
market tends more or less continuously to introduce a highly spec-
ulative element into the common shares through the simple means
Of a price so high as to carry a fair degree of risk.
At this point I cannot forbear introducing a surprisingly rele-
vant, if quite exaggerated, quotation on the subject which I found 
recently in one of Shakespeare's sonnets. It reads:
Have I not seen dwellers on form and favor
Lose all and more by. paying too much rent?
Returning to my imaginary graph, it would be the center area
where the speculative element in common-stock purchases would
-m   n am  s   sn   
established and strong companies, with a record of past growth
corresponding to that of the national economy and with future
prospects apparently of the same character. Such common stocks
could be bought at most times, except in the upper ranges of a bull
market, at moderate prices in relation to their indicated intrinsic
values. As a matter of fact, because of the present tendency of
investors and speculators alike to concentrate on more glamorous
issues, I should hazard the statement that these middle-ground
stocks tend to sell on the whole rather below their independently
determinable values. They thus have a margin-of-safety factor sup-
plied by the same market preferences and prejudices which tend to
destroy t
the margin of safety in the more promising issues. Further-
more, in this wide array of companies there is plenty of room for
choice in the area of future prospects, to which can be added the
higher assurance of safety conferred by diversification.
When Phaethon insisted on driving the chariot of the Sun, his
father, the experienced operator, gave the neophyte some. advice
which the latter failed to followto his cost. Ovid summed up
Phoebus Apollo's counsel in three words:
Medius tutissimus ibis
You will go safest in the middle course
I think this principle holds good for investors and their security
analyst advisers.
Appendixes
575
