### 7. Technological Companies as Investments

In the Standard & Poor's services in mid-1971 there were listed
about 200 companies with names beginning with Compu-, Data,
Electro-, Scien-, Techno-. About half of these belonged to some part
of the computer industry. All of them were traded in the market or
had made applications to sell stock to the public.
A total of 46 such companies appeared in the S & P Stock Guide
for September 1971. Of these, 26 were reporting deficits, 0nly six
Were earning over $1 per share, and only five were paying divi-
dends.
In the December 1968 Stock Guide there had appeared 45 compa-
nies with similar technological names. Tracing the sequel of this
list, as shown in the September 1971 Guide, we find the following
developments:
Total
Price
Price Declined
Price Declined
Dropped from
Companies
Advanced
Less Than Half
More Than Half
Stock Guide
45
2
8
23
12
CoMMENT: It is virtually certain that the many technological
companies not included in the Guide in 1968 had a poorer subse-
quent record than those that were included; also that the 12 compa-
nies dropped from the list did worse than those that were retained.
The harrowing results shown by t
these samples are no doubt rea-
sonably indicative of the quality
/ and price history of the entire
group of "technology" issues. The phenomenal success of IBM and
a few other companies was bound to produce a spate of public
offerings of new issues in their fields, for which large losses were
virtually guaranteed.
Endnotes
Introduction: What This Book Expects to Accomplish
