### 7. Technological Companies as Investments

578
Endnotes
579
Acknowledgments from Jason Zweig
589
Index
591
The text reproduced here is the Fourth Revised Edition, updated by
Graham in 1971-1972 and initially published in 1973. Please be
chapters with superscript numerals) can be found in the. Endnotes sec-
tion beginning on p. 579. The new footnotes that Jason Zweig has intro-
duced appear at the bottom of Graham's pages (and, in the typeface
used here, as occasional additions to Graham's endnotes).
Preface to theFourth Edition,
by Warren E. Buffett
teen. I thought then that it was by far the best book about investing
ever written. I still think it is.
To invest successfully over a lifetime does not require a strato-
spheric IQ, unusual business insights, or inside information.
What's needed is a sound intellectual framework for making deci-
sions and the ability to keep emotions from corroding that frame-
work. This book precisely
  and clearly prescribes  the  proper
framework. You must supply the emotional discipline.
If you follow the behavioral and business principles that Gra-
ham advocates-and if you pay special attention to the invaluable
advice in Chapters 8 and 20-you will not get a poor result from
your investments. (That represents more of an accomplishment
than you might think.) Whether you achieve outstanding results
will depend on the effort and intellect you apply to your invest-
ments, as well as on the amplitudes of stock-market folly that pre-
vail during your investing career. The sillier the market's behavior,
the greater the opportunity for the business-like investor. Follow .
Graham and you will profit from folly rather than participate in it.
To me, Ben Graham was far more than an author or a teacher.
More than any other man except my father, he influenced my life.
Shortly after Ben's death in 1976, 1 wrote the following short
remembrance about him in the Financial Analysts Journal. As you
read the book, I believe you'll perceive some of the qualities I men-
tioned in this tribute.
ix
Preface to the Fourth Edition
X
BENIAMIN GRAHAM
1894-1976
Several years ago Ben Graham, then almost eighty, expressed to a friend
the thought that he hoped every day to do "something foolish, something
creative and something generous."
The inclusion of that first whimsical goal reflected his knack for pack-
aging ideas in a form that avoided any overtones of sermonizing or
self-importance. Although his ideas were powerful, their delivery was
unfailingly gentle.
Readers of this magazine need no elaboration of his achievements as
measured by the standard of creativity. It is rare that the founder of a disci-
pline does not find his work eclipsed in rather short order by sulccessors.
But over forty years after publication of the book that brought structure
and logic to a disorderly and confused activity, it is difficult to think of pos-
sible candidates for even the runner-up position in the field of security
analysis. In an area where much looks foolish within weeks or months
after publication, Ben's principles have remained sound-their value often
enhanced and better understood in the wake of financial storms that
demolished flimsier intellectual structures. His counsel of soundness
brought unfailing rewards to his followers--even to those with natural .
abilities inferior to more gifted practitioners who stumbled while follow-
ing counsels of brilliance or fashion.
A remarkable aspect of Ben's dominance of his professional field was
that he achieved it without that narrowness of mental activity that concen-
trates all effort on a single end. It was, rather, the incidental by-product of
an intellect whose breadth almost exceeded definition. Certainly I have
never met anyone with a mind of similar scope. Virtually total recall,
unending fascination with new knowledge, and an ability to recast it in a
  xa  sd pn s  e 
thinking in any field a delight.
But his third imperative—-generosity-—- was where he succeeded beyond
     a    s   a  y
relationship--just as with all his students, employees, and friends--there
was an absolutely open-ended, no-scores-kept generosity of ideas, time,
go. And if encouragement or counsel was needed, Ben was there.
Walter Lippmann spoke of men who plant trees that other men will sit
under. Ben Graham was such a man.
Reprinted from the Financial Analysts Journal, November /December 1976.
A Note About Benjamin Graham
by JasonZweig
Graham was not only one of the best investors who ever lived; he was
also the greatest practical investment thinker of all time. Before Graham,
superstition, guesswork, and arcane rituals. Graham's Security Analysis
was the textbook that transformed this musty circle into a modern pro-
fession.1
And The Intelligent Investor is the first book ever to describe, for
individual investors, the emotional framework and analytical tools that
are essential to financial success. It remains the single best book on
investing ever written for the general public. The Intelligent Investor
was the first book I read when l joined Forbes Magazine as a cub
reporter in 1987, and 1 was struck by Graham's certainty that, s0oner
or later, all buil markets must end badly. That October, U.S. stocks suf-
fered their worst one-day crash in history, and I was hooked. (Today,
after the wild bull market of the late 1990s and the brutal bear market
that began in early 20o0, The Intelligent Investor reads more prophet-
ically than ever.)
Graham came by his insights the hard way: by feeling firsthand the
anguish of financial loss and by studying for decades the history and
psychology of the markets. He was born Benjamin Grossbaum on
May 9, 1894, in London; his father was a dealer in china dishes and
figurines.? The family moved to New York when Ben was a year old. At
first they lived the good life-with a maid, a cook, and a French gov-
1 Coauthored with David Dodd and first published in 1934.
2 The Grossbaums changed their name to Graham during World War I,
when German-sounding names were regarded with suspicion.
Xi
xii
A Note About Benjamin Graham
erness-on upper Fifth Avenue. But Ben's father died in 1903, the
porcelain business faltered, and the family slid haltingly into poverty.
Ben's mother turned their home into a boardinghouse; then, borrow-
ing money to trade stocks "on margin, she was wiped out in the crash
of 1907. For the rest of his life, Ben would recall the humiliation of
cashing a check for his mother and hearing the bank teller ask, "ls
Dorothy Grossbaum good for five dollars?"
Fortunately, Graham won a scholarship at Columbia, where his
brilliance burst into full flower. He graduated in 1914, second in his
class. Before the end of Graham's final semester, three departments-
English, philosophy, and mathematics-asked him to join the facuity.
He was all of 20 years old.
Instead of academia, Graham decided to give Wall Street a shot.
He started as a clerk at a bond-trading firm, soon became an analyst,
then a partner; and before long was running his own investment part-
nership.
The Internet boom and bust would not have surprised Graham. In
April 1919, he earned a 250% return on the first day of trading for
Savold Tire, a new offering in the booming automotive business; by
October, the company had been exposed as a fraud and the stock
was worthless.
Graham became a master at researching stocks in microscopic,
almost molecular, detail. In 1925, plowing through the obscure
reports filed by oil pipelines with the U.S. Interstate Commerce Com-
mission, he learned that Northern Pipe Line Co.-then trading at $65
per share-held at least $80 per share in high-quality bonds. (He
bought the stock, pestered its managers into raising the dividend, and
came away with $1 10 per share three years later.)
Despite a harrowing loss of nearly 7o% during the Great Crash of
1929-1932, Graham survived and thrived in its aftermath, harvesting
bargains from the wreckage of the bull market. There is no exact
record of Graham's earliest returns, but from 1936 until he retired in
1956, his Graham-Newman Corp. gained at least 14.7% annually,
versus 12.2% for the stock market as a whole-one of the best long-
term track records on Wall Street history."
: Graham-Newman Corp. was an open-end mutual fund (see Chapter 9)
that Graham ran in partnership with Jerome Newman, a skilled investor in his
own right. For much of its history, the fund was closed to new investors. I am
A Note About Benjamin Graham
xii
How did Graham do it? Combining his extraordinary intelectual
developed his core principles, which are at least as valid today as they
were during his lifetime:
A stock is not just a ticker symbol or an electronic blip; it is an
ownership interest in an actual business, with an underlying value
that does not depend on its share price.
The market is a pendulum that forever swings between unsustain-
able optimism (which makes stocks too expensive) and unjustified
pessimism (which makes them too cheap). The intelligent investor
is a realist who sells to optimists and buys from pessimists.
The future value of every investment is a function of its present
price. The higher the price you pay, the lower your return will be.
No matter how careful you are, the one risk no investor can ever
eliminate is the risk of being wrong. Only by insisting on what
 no so- o sas as  xa ao 
your odds of error.
The secret to your financial success is inside yourself. If you
and you invest with patient confidence, you can take steady
advantage of even the worst bear markets. By developing your
discipline and courage, you can refuse to let other people's mood
swings govern your financial destiny. In the end, how your invest-
ments behave is much less important than how you behave.
The goal of this revised edition of The Intelligent Investor is to apply
Graham's ideas to today's financial markets while leaving his text
entirely intact (with the exception of footnotes for clarification). After
each of Graham's chapters you'll find a new commentary. In these
reader's guides, I've added recent examples that should show you just
how relevant-and how liberating-Graham's principles remain today.
grateful to Walter Schloss for providing data essential to estimating
Graham-Newman's returns. The 20% annual average return that Graham
cites in his Postscript (p. 532) appears not to take management fees into
account.
4 The text reproduced here is the Fourth Revised Edition, updated by Gra-
ham in 1971-1972 and initialy published in 1973.
xiv
A Note About Benjamin Graham
I envy you the excitement and enlightenment of reading Graham's
masterpiece for the first time-or even the third or fourth time. Like all
classics, it alters how we view the world and renews itself by educat-
ing us. And the more you read it, the better it gets. With Graham as
your guide, you are guaranteed to become a vastly more intelligent
investor.
INTRODUCTION:
What This Book Expects to Accomplish
I he purpose of this book is to supply, in a form suitable for lay-
men, guidance in the adoption and execution of an investment pol-
icy. Comparatively little will be said here about the technique of
analyzing securities; attention will be paid chiefly to investment
principles and investors' attitudes. We shall, however, provide a
number of condensed comparisons of specific securities--chiefly in
       s   e s
in order to bring home in concrete fashion the important elements
involved in specific choices of common stocks.
But much of our space will be devoted to the historical patterns
of financial markets, in some cases running back over many
decades. To invest intelligently in securities one should be fore-
armed with an adequate knowledge of how the various types of
bonds and stocks have actually behaved under varying condi-
 n     si    s go 
own experience. No statement is more true and better applicable to
Wall Street than the famous warning of Santayana: "Those who do
not remember the past are condemned to repeat it." .
Our text is directed to investors as distinguished from specula-
tors, and our first task will be to clarify and emphasize this now all
but forgotten distinction. We may say at the outset that this is not a
"how to make a million" book. There are no sure and easy paths to
riches on Wall Street or anywhere else. It may be well to point up
since there is more than one moral to be drawn from it. In the cli-
mactic year 1929 John J. Raskob, a most important figure nationally
as well as on Wall Street, extolled the blessings of capitalism in an
article in the Ladies' Home Journal, entitled "Everybody Ought to Be
1
?
Introduction
in good common stocks--with dividends reinvested-—-would pro-
duce an estate of $80,000 in twenty years against total contributions
of only $3,600. If the General Motors tycoon was right, this was
indeed a simple road to riches. How nearly right was he? Our
rough calculation—based on assumed investment in the 30 stocks
making up the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA)--indicates
that if Raskob's prescription had been followed during 1929-1948,
the investor's holdings at the beginning of 1949 would have been
 s  n  A    s  o 
of $80,000, and it shows how little reliance can be placed on such
optimistic forecasts and assurances. But, as an aside, we should
remark that the return actually realized by the 20-year operation
would have been better than 8% compounded annually-and this
despite the fact that the investor would have begun his purchases
with the DJIA at 300 and ended with a valuation based on the 1948
closing level of 177. This record may be regarded as a persuasive
argument for the principle of regular monthly purchases of strong
"dollar-cost averaging.
Since our book is not addressed to speculators, it is not meant
for those who trade in the market. Most of these people are guided
by charts or other largely mechanical means of determining the
right moments to buy and sell. The one principle that applies to
nearly all these so-called "technical approaches" is that one should
buy because a stock or the market has gone up and one should sell
because it has declined. This is the exact opposite of sound business
sense everywhere else, and it is most unlikely that it can lead to
* Raskob (1879-1950) was a director of Du Pont, the giant chemical com-
pany, and chairman of the finance committee at General Motors. He also
served as national chairman of the Democratic Party and was the driving
force behind the construction of the Empire State Building. Calculations by
finance professor Jeremy Siegel confirm that Raskob's plan would have
grown to just under $9,000 after 20 years, although inflation would have
long-term stock investing, see the essay by financial adviser William Bern-
stein at www.efficientfrontier.com/ef/197/raskob.htm.
What This Book Expects to Accomplish
3
lasting success on Wall Street. In our own stock-market experience
and observation, extending over 50 years, we have not known a
single person who has consistently or lastingly made money by
          , s
approach is as fallacious as it is popular. We shall illustrate what
we have just said—though, of course this should not be taken as
proof—by a later brief discussion of the famous Dow theory for
trading in the stock market.*
Since its first publication in 1949, revisions of The Intelligent
updating the current version we shall have to deal with quite a
number of new developments since the 1965. edition was written.
These include:
An unprecedented advance in the interest rate on high-grade
bonds.
2.
 A fall of about 35% in the price level of leading common
stocks, ending in May 1970. This was the highest percentage
decline in some 30 years. (Countless issues of lower quality
had a much larger shrinkage.)
3
A persistent inflation of wholesale and consumer's prices,
which gained momentum even in the face of a decline of gen-
eral business in 1970.
4.
The rapid development of "conglomerate" companies, fran-
chise operations, and other relative novelties in business and
finance. (These include a number of tricky devices such as "let-
ter stock," proliferation of stock-option warrants, misleading
names; use of foreign banks, and others.)t
* Graham's "brief discussion" is in two parts, on p. 33 and pp. 191-192.
' For more detail on the Dow Theory, see http://viking.som.yale.edu/will/
dow/dowpage.html.
ately revalued these shares at a higher public price (see Graham's definition
on p. 579). That enabled these “go-go" funds to report unsustainably high
returns in the mid-1960s. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
cracked down on this abuse in 1969, and it is no longer a concern for fund
investors. Stock-option warrants are explained in Chapter 16.
4
Introduction
Bankruptcy of our largest railroad, excessive short- and long-
5.
term debt of many formerly strongly entrenched companies,
and even a disturbing problem of solvency among Wall Street
houses.*
6.
The advent of the "performance" vogue in the management of
investment funds, including some bank-operated trust funds,
With disquieting results.
These phenomena will have our careful consideration, and some
will require changes in conclusions and emphasis from our previ-
ous edition. The underlying principles of sound investment should
not alter from decade to decade, but the application of these princi-
ples must be adapted to significant changes in the financial mecha-
nisms and climate.
The last statement was put to the test during the writing of the
present edition, the first draft of which was finished in January
