### 1971. At that time the DJIA was in a strong recovery from its 1970

low of 632 and was advancing toward a 1971 high of 951, with
attendant general optimism. As the last draft was finished, in
November 1971, the market was in the throes of a new decline, car-
rying it down to 797 with a renewed general uneasiness about its
future. We have not allowed these fluctuations to affect our general
attitude toward sound investment policy, which remains substan-
tially unchanged since the first edition of this book in 1949.
The extent of the market's shrinkage in 1969-70 should have
-p punoa gues uaa py rer uisn ue pdsip oi paaas
ing the past two decades. This was that leading common stocks
could be bought at any time and at any price, with the assurance not
only of ultimate profit but also that any intervening loss would soon
be recouped by a renewed advance of the market to new high lev-
United States, sought bankruptcy protection on June 21, 1970-shocking
investors, who had never expected such a giant company to go under (see
uw u! pey weyeiy nqep asissaoxa, yhm saiuedwoo au buowy (ezt 'd
were Ling-Temco-Vought and National General Corp. (see pp. 425 and
463). The "problem of solvency” on Wall Street emerged between 1968
and 1971, when several prestigious brokerages suddenly went bust.
What This Book Expects to Accomplish
5
els. That was too good to be true. At long last the stock market has
"returned to normal," in the sense that both speculators and stock
investors must again be prepared to experience significant and per-
haps protracted falls as well as rises in the value of their holdings.
In the area of many secondary and third-line common stocks,
  e r  a   
last market break was catastrophic. This was nothing new in
itself-it had happened to a similar degree in 1961--62--but there
was now a novel element in the fact that some of the investment
funds had large commitments in highly speculative and obviously
overvalued issues of this type. Evidently it is not only the tyro who
needs to be warned that while enthusiasm may be necessary for
great accomplishments elsewhere, on Wall Street it almost invari-
ably leads to disaster.
The major question we shall have to deal with grows out of the
huge rise in the rate of interest on first-quality bonds. Since late 1967
the investor has been able to obtain more than twice as much
income from such bonds as he could from dividends on representa-
tive common stocks. At the beginning of 1972 the return was 7.19%
on highest-grade bonds versus only 2.76% on industrial stocks.
(This compares with 4.40% and 2.92% respectively at the end of
1964.) It is hard to realize that when we first wrote this book in 1949
the figures were almost the exact opposite: the bonds returned only
2.66% and the stocks yielded 6.82%.' In previous editions we have
consistently urged that at least 25% of the conservative investor's
portfolio be held in common stocks, and we have favored in general
a 50-50 division between the two media. We must now consider
whether the current great advantage of bond yields over stock
yields would justify an all-bond policy until a more sensible rela-
tionship returns, as we expect it will. Naturally the question of con-
tinued inflation will be of great importance in reaching our decision
here. A chapter will be devoted to this discussion.*
* See Chapter 2. As of the beginning of 2003, U.S. Treasury bonds matur-
ing in 10 years yielded 3.8%, while stocks (as measured by the Dow Jones
Industrial Average) yielded 1.9%. (Note that this relationship is not all that
different from the 1964 figures that Graham cites.) The income generated
by top-quality bonds has been falling steadily since 1981.
6
Introduction
In the past we have made a basic distinction between two kinds
of investors to whom this book was addressed-the "defensive'
and the "enterprising." The defensive (or passive) investor will
place his chief emphasis on the avoidance of serious mistakes or
losses. His second aim will be freedom from effort, annoyance, and
the need for making frequent decisions. The determining trait of
the enterprising (or active, or aggressive) investor is his willingness
to devote time and care to the selection of securities that are both
sound and more attractive than the average. Over many decades
an enterprising investor of this sort could expect a worthwhile
reward for his extra skill and effort, in the form of a better average
return than that realized by the passive investor. We have some
doubt whether a really substantial extra recompense is promised to
the active investor under today's conditions. But next year or the
years after may well be different. We shall accordingly continue to
devote attention to the possibilities for enterprising investment, as
they existed in former periods and may return.
It has long been the prevalent view that the art of success-
ful investment lies first in the choice of those industries that
are most likely to grow in the future and then in identifying the
most promising companies in these industries. For example, smart
investors-or their smart advisers--would long ago have recog-
nized the great growth possibilities of the computer industry as a
whole and of International Business Machines in particular. And
similarly for a number of other growth industries and g
growth com-
panies. But this is not as easy as it always looks in retrospect. To
bring this point home at the outset let us add here a paragraph that
We included first in the 1949 edition of this book. .
Such an investor may for example be a buyer of air-transport
stocks because he believes their future is even more brilliant than
the trend the market already reflects. For this class of investor the
value of our book will lie more in its warnings against the pitfalls
lurking in this favorite investment approach than in any positive
technique that will help him along his path.*
* "Air-transport stocks," of course, generated as much excitement in the late
1940s and early 1950s as Internet stocks did a half century later. Among
the hottest mutual funds of that era were Aeronautical Securities and the
What This Book Expects to Accomplish
The pitfalls have proved particularly dangerous in the industry
we mentioned. It was, of course, easy.to forecast that the volume of
air traffic would grow spectacularly over the years. Because of this
factor their shares became a favorite choice of the investment
funds. But despite the expansion of revenuesat a pace even
greater than in the computer industry--a combination of techno-
logical problems and overexpansion of capacity made for fluctuat-
ing and even disastrous profit figures. In the year 1970, despite a
new high in traffic figures, the airlines sustained a loss of some
$200 million for their shareholders. (They had shown losses also in
1945 and 1961.) The stocks of these companies once again showed a
greater decline in 1969-70 than did the general market. The record
shows that. even the highly paid full-time experts of the mutual
funds were completely wrong about the fairly short-term future of
a major and nonesoteric industry.
On the other hand, while the investment funds had substantial
investments and substantial gains in IBM, the combination of its
apparently high price and the impossibility of being certain about
its rate of growth prevented them from having more than, say, 3%
this excellent choice on their overall results was by no means
decisive. Furthermore, many——-if not most-of their investments in
computer-industry companies other than IBM appear to have been
unprofitable. From these two broad examples we draw two morals
for our readers:
1.
translate into obvious profits for investors.
2.
The experts do not have dependable ways of selecting and
concentrating on the most promising companies in the most
promising industries.
Missiles-Rockets-Jets & Automation Fund. They, like the stocks they owned,
u Aepot paidaooe Ajuowwoo s! ll vaisesip busasu! ue sq oi ino pauni
the cumulative earnings of the airline industry over its entire history have
been negative. The lesson Graham is driving at is not that you should avoid
eao, sut oi qnoons jaau pinoys nos peyt ing 'syoois aue buiang
that any industry will outperform all others in the future.
8
Introduction
The author did not follow this approach in his financial career as
fund manager, and he cannot offer either specific counsel or much
encouragement to those who may wish to try it.
What then will we aim to accomplish in this book? Our main
substantial error and to develop policies with which he will be
comfortable. We shall say quite a bit about the psychology of
investors. For indeed, the investor's chief problemand even his
worst enemy---is likely to be himself. ("The fault, dear investor, is
not in our stars-and not in our stocksbut in ourselves. . . .") This
has proved the more true over recent decades as it has become
more necessary for conservative investors to acquire common
stocks and thus to expose themselves, willy-nilly, to the excitement
and the temptations of the stock market. By arguments, examples,
and exhortation, we hope to aid our readers to establish the proper
mental and emotional attitudes toward their investment decisions.
- Aro, Aq ady pue ape au ao n as aan m
ple" who were temperamentally well suited for the investment
process than by those who lacked this quality, even though they
had an extensive. knowledge of finance, accounting, and stock-
market lore.
Additionally, we hope to implant in the reader a tendency to
measure or quantify. For 99 issues out of 100 we could say that at
some price they are cheap enough to buy and at some other price
they would be so dear that they should be sold. The habit of relat-
ing what is paid to what is being offered is an invaluable trait in
 s   s      
we advised the readers to buy their stocks as they bought their gro-
of the past few years (and on many similar occasions before) were
realized in those common-stock issues where the buyer forgot to
ask "How much?"
Aq panamsu aq pnoo ,irn mo, uosnb au oai aunf u
the magic figure 9.40%---the yield obtainable on new offerings of
high-grade public-utility bonds. This has now dropped to about
7.3%, but even that return tempts us to ask, "Why give any other
answer?" But there are other possible answers, and these must be
carefully considered. Besides which, we repeat that both we and
Our readers must be prepared in advance for the possibly quite dif-
ferent conditions of, say, 1973-1977.
What This Book Expects to Accomplish
9
We shall therefore present in some detail a positive program for
common-stock investment, part of which is within the purview of
prising group. Strangely enough, we shall suggest as one of our
chief requirements here that our readers limit themselves to issues
selling not far above their tangible-asset value.* The reason for
this seemingly outmoded counsel is both practical and psychologi-
cal. Experience has taught us that, while there are many good
growth companies worth several times net assets, the buyer of
such shares will be too dependent on the vagaries and fluctuations
           
public-utility companies at about their net-asset value can always
consider himself the owner of an interest in sound and expanding
businesses, acquired at a rational price-regardless of what the
stock market might say to the contrary. The ultimate result of such
  n o     d  
adventures into the glamorous and dangerous fields of anticipated
growth.
The art of investment has one characteristic that is not generally
appreciated. A creditable, if unspectacular, result can be achieved
by the lay investor with a minimum of effort and capability; but to
improve this easily attainable standard requires much application
and more than a trace of wisdom. If you merely try to bring just a
program, instead of realizing a little better than normal results, you
may well find that you have done worse.
Since anyone-by just buying and holding a representative
list—-can equal the performance of the market averages, it would
 a ia a a, c  ns a e s
a matter of fact the proportion of smart people who try this and fail
is surprisingly large. Even the majority of the investment funds,
with all their experienced personnel, have not performed so well
* Tangible assets include a company's physical property (like real estate,
factories, equipment, and inventories) as well as its financial balances (such
as cash, short-term investments, and accounts receivable). Among the ele-
ments not included in tangible assets are brands, copyrights, patents, fran-
chises, goodwill, and trademarks. To see how to calculate tangible-asset
value, see footnote t on p. 198.
10
Introduction
over the years as has the general market. Allied to the foregoing
is the record of the published stock-market predictions of the
brokerage houses, for there is strong evidence that their calculated
forecasts have been somewhat less reliable than the simple tossing
of a coin.
In writing this book we have tried to keep this basic pitfall of
investment in mind. The virtues of a simple portfolio policy have
been emphasized-the purchase of high-grade bonds plus a diver-
    s     
out with a little expert assistance. The adventure beyond this safe
and sound territory has been presented as fraught with challeng-
attempting such a venture the investor should feel sure of himself
and of his advisers--particularly as to whether they have a clear
concept of the differences between investment and speculation and
between market price and underlying value.
A strong-minded approach to investment, firmly based on the
margin-of-safety principle, can yield handsome rewards. But a
decision to try for these emoluments rather than for the assured
fruits of defensive investment should not be made without much
self-examination.
A final retrospective thought. When the young author entered
Wall Street in June 1914 no one had any inkling of what the next
half-century had in store. (The stock market did not even suspect
that a World War was to break out in two months, and close down
the New York Stock Exchange.) Now, in 1972, we find ourselves the
richest and most powerful country on earth, but beset by all sorts
of major problems and more apprehensive than confident of the
future. Yet if we confine our attention to American investment
experience, there is some comfort to be gleaned from the last 57
years. Through
n all their vicissitudes and casualties, as earth-
shaking as they were unforeseen, it remained true that sound
investment principles produced generally sound results. We must
act on the assumption that they will continue to do so.
Note to the Reader: This book does not address itself to the overall
financial policy of savers and investors; it deals only with that
  d o dd a a m s a f 
ketable (or redeemable) securities, that is, in bonds and stocks.
What This Book Expects to Accomplish
11
Consequently we do not discuss such important media as savings
and time desposits, savings-and-loan-association accounts, life
insurance, annuities, and real-estate mortgages or equity owner-
ship. The reader should bear in mind that when he finds the word
"now," or the equivalent, in the text, it refers to late 1971 or
early 1972.
COMMENTARY ON THE INTRODUCTION
If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost;
that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under
them.
-Henry David Thoreau, Walden
tell you how to beat the market. No truthful book can.
Instead, this book will teach you three powerful lessons:
how you can minimize the odds of suffering irreversible losses;
how you can maximize the chances of achieving sustainable gains;
how you can control the self-defeating behavior that keeps most
investors from reaching their full potential.
Back in the boom years of the late 1990s, when technology stocks
seemed to be doubling in value every day, the notion that you could
lose almost all your money seemed absurd. But, by the end. of 2002,
many of the dot-com and telecom stocks had lost 95% of their value
or more. Once you lose 95% of your money, you have to gain 1,900%
you so deep in the hole that it's virtually impossible to get out. That's
why Graham constantly emphasizes the  importance of avoiding
losses-not just in Chapters 6, 14, and 20, but in the threads of warn-
ing that he has woven throughout his entire text.
But no matter how careful you are, the price of your investments
will go down from time to time. While no one can eliminate that risk,
1 To put this statement in perspective, consider how often you are likely to
buy a stock at $30 and be able to sell it at $600.
12
Commentary on the Introduction
13
under control.
Are you an intelligent investor?
Now let's answer a vitally important question. What exactly does Gra?
 o oa    a i aalia,  a  
book, Graham defines the term--and he makes it clear that this kind of
inteligence has nothing to do with IQ or SAT scores. It simply means
being patient, disciplined, and eager to learn; you must also be able to
harness your emotions and think for yourself. This kind of intelligence,
explains Graham, "is a trait more of the character than of the brain."2
There's proof that high lQ and higher education are not enough to
make an investor intelligent. In 1998, Long-Term Capital Management
L.P., a hedge fund run by a battalion of mathematicians, computer
scientists, and two Nobel Prize-winning economists, lost more than
$2 billion in a matter of weeks on a huge bet,that the bond market
would return to "normal" But the bond market kept right on becoming
more and more abnormal-and LTCM had borrowed so much money
that its collapse nearly capsized the global financial system.3
And back in the spring of 1720, Sir lsaac Newton owned shares in
the South Sea Company, the hottest stock in England. Sensing that
the market was getting out of hand, the great physicist muttered that
he "could calculate the motions of the heavenly bodies, but not the
madness of the people:' Newton dumped his South Sea shares, pock-
eting a 100% profit totaling &7,000. But just months later, swept up in
the wild enthusiasm of the market, Newton jumped back in at a much
s,epon u! uow es ueun aow no) ooo'oo isol pu-aoud nybu
"South Sea" in his presence.
2 Benjamin Graham, The Intelligent Investor (Harper & Row, 1949), p. 4.
* A "hedge fund" is a pool of money, largely unregulated by the government,
invested aggressively for wealthy clients. For a superb teling of the LTCM
story, see Roger Lowenstein, When Genius Failed (Random House, 2oo0).
4 John Carswell, The South Sea Bubble (Cresset Press, London, 1960),
pp. 131, 199. Also see www.harvard-magazine.com/issues/mj99/damnd.
html.
14
Commentary on the Introduction
Sir Isaac Newton was one of the most intelligent people who ever
lived, as most of us wouid define intelligence. But, in Graham's terms,
 o o  bni a  i    s o
crowd override his own judgment, the world's greatest scientist acted
like a fool.
In short, if you've failed at investing so far, it's not because you're
stupid. It's because, like Sir lsaac Newton, you haven't developed the
emotional discipline that successful investing requires. In Chapter 8,
Graham describes how to enhance your intelligence by harnessing
your emotions and refusing to stoop to the market's level of irrational-
ity. There you can master his lesson that being an intelligent investor is
more a matter of "character" than "brain."
A chronicle of calamity
Now let's take a moment to look at some of the major financial devel-
opments of the past few years:
.
The worst market crash since the Great Depression, with U.S.
stocks losing 50.2% of their value-or $7.4 trillion--between
March 2000 and October 2002.
2.
Far deeper drops in the share prices of the hottest companies of
the 1990s, including AOL, Cisco, JDS Uniphase, Lucent, and
Qualcomm-plus the utter destruction of hundreds of Internet
stocks.
3.
Accusations of massive financial fraud at some of the largest and
most respected corporations in America, including Enron, Tyco,
and Xerox.
4.
The bankruptcies of such once-glistening companies as Con-
seco, Global Crossing, and WorldCom.
Allegations that accounting firms cooked the books, and even
destroyed records, to help their clients mislead the investing public.
6.
Charges that top executives at leading companies siphoned off
hundreds of millions of dollars for their own personal gain.
7.
Proof that security analysts on Wall Street praised stocks publicly
but admitted privately that they were garbage.
8. 
A stock market that, even after its bloodcurdling decline, seems
overvalued by historical measures, suggesting to many experts
that stocks have further yet to fall.
Commentary on the Introduction
15
