### 10. An investing environment bristling with the unpredictabie menace

of global terrorism and war in the Middle East.
Much of this damage could have been (and was!) avoided by
investors who learned and lived by Graham's principles. As Graham
puts it, "while enthusiasm may be necessary for great accomplish-
ments elsewhere, on Wall Street it almost invariably leads to disaster:"
By letting themselves get carried away-on Internet stocks, on big
'growth" stocks, on stocks as a whole-many people made the same
stupid mistakes as Sir lsaac Newton. They let other investors' judg-
ments determine their own. They ignored Graham's warning that “the
really dreadful losses" always occur after “the buyer forgot to ask
'How much?' " Most painfully of all, by losing their self-control just
when they needed it the most, these people proved Graham's asser-
likely to be himself."
The sure thinG that Wasn't
Many of those people got especially carried away on technology and
Internet stocks, believing the high-tech hype that this industry would
keep outgrowing every other for years to come, if not forever:
In mid-1999, after earning a 117.3% return in just the first five
months of the year, Monument Internet Fund portfolio manager
Alexander Cheung predicted that his fund would gain 5o% a year
over the next three to five years and an annual average of 35%o
"over the next 20 years."5
 sd ' s so pug  u  so ssy u ' '
achieved by the legendary Peter Lynch of Fidelity Magellan over the two
decades ending December 31, 1994. Lynch's performance turned $10,000
into more than $982,000 in 20 years. Cheung was predicting that his fund
would turn $10,000 into more than $4 million over the same length of time
Instead of regarding Cheung as ridicufously overoptimistic, investors threw
16
Commentary on the Introduction
After his Amerindo Technology Fund rose an incredible 248.9%
in 1999, portfolio manager Aiberto Vilar ridiculed anyone who
dared to doubt that the Internet was a perpetual moneymaking
machine: "lf you're out of this sector, you're going to underper*
form. You're in a horse and buggy, and I'm in a Porsche. You
don't like tenfold growth opportunities? Then go with someone
else,"6
In February 20oo, hedge-fund manager James J. Cramer pro-
owning right now." These "winners of the new world," as he called
them, "are the only ones that are going higher consistently in
good days and bad:" Cramer even took a potshot at Graham: "You
have to throw out all of the matrices and formulas and texts that
existed before the Web. . . . lf we used any of what Graham and
Dodd teach us, we wouldn't have a dime under management!" 7
All these so-called experts ignored Graham's sober words of warn-
ing: "Obvious prospects for physical growth in a business do not
translate into obvious profits for investors:" While it seems easy to
foresee which industry will grow the fastest, that foresight has no real
value if most other investors are already expecting the same thing. By
the time everyone decides that a given industry is "obviously" the best
xau aun jao puny s!y ou! uow oois ueyi aiow bubu 'wiy ie Xauou
year. A $10,000 investment in the Monument Internet Fund in May 1999
would have shrunk to roughly $2,000 by year-end 2002. (The Monument
fund no longer exists in its original form and is now known as Orbitex
Emerging Technology Fund.)
pinom nof '6ee1 jo pua ayt te pun, s,je u! ooo'oi$ paisaau! pey nok H
have finished 2002 with just $1,195 left-one of the worst destructions of
wealth in the history of the mutual-fund industry.
7 See www.thestreet.com/funds/smarter/891820.html. Cramer's favorite
stocks did not go "higher consistently in good days and bad: By year-end
2002, one of the 10 had already gone bankrupt, and a $10,000 investment
spread equally across Cramer's picks would have lost 94%, leaving you
with a grand total of $597.44. Perhaps Cramer meant that his stocks would
be "winners" not in "the new world,' but in the world to come.
Commentary on the Introduction
17
one to invest in, the prices of its stocks have been bid up so high that
its future returns have nowhere to go but down.
For now at least, no one has the gall to try claiming that technology
will still be the world's greatest growth industry. But make sure you
remember this: The people who now claim that the next "sure thing'
will be health care, or energy, or real estate, or gold, are no more likely
to be right in the end than the hypesters of high tech turned out to be.
The silver lininG
If no price seemed too high for stocks in the 1990s, in 2003 we've
reached the point at which no price appears to be low enough. The
pendulum has swung, as Graham knew it always does, from irrational
exuberance to unjustifiable pessimism. In 2002, investors yanked $27
billion out of stock mutual funds, and a survey conducted by the Secu-
rities Industry Association found that one out of 1o investors had cut
back on stocks by at least 25%o. The same people who were eager to
buy stocks in the late 1990s-when they were going up in price and,
therefore, becoming expensive-sold stocks as they went down in
price and, by definition, became cheaper.
As Graham shows so brilliantly in Chapter 8, this is exactly back-
wards. The intelligent investor realizes that stocks become more risky,
not less, as their prices rise-and less risky, not more, as their prices
fall. The intelligent investor dreads a bull market, since it makes stocks
more costly to buy. And conversely (so long as you keep enough cash
on hand to meet your spending needs), you should welcome a bear
market, since it puts stocks back on sale.8
So take heart: The death of the bull market is not the bad news
everyone believes it to be. Thanks to the decline in stock prices, now
is a considerably safer-and saner-time to be building wealth. Read
on, and let Graham show you how.
: The only exception to this rule is an investor in the advanced stage of
retirement, who may not be able to outlast a long bear market. Yet even an
elderly investor should not sell her stocks merely because they have gone
down in price; that approach not only turns her paper losses into real ones
but deprives her heirs of the potential to inherit those stocks at lower costs
for tax purposes.
