### 3. Expectations and Policy in Late 1971 and Early 1972

Toward the end of 1971 it was possible to obtain 8% taxable
interest on good medium-term corporate bonds, and 5.7% tax-free
on good state or municipal securities. In the shorter-term field the
investor could realize about 6% on U.S. government issues due in
five years. In the latter case the buyer need not be concerned about
* Read Graham's sentence again, and note what this greatest of investing
experts is saying: The future of security prices is never predictable. And as
you read ahead in the book, notice how everything else Graham tells you is
designed to help you grapple with that truth. Since you cannot predict the
behavior of the markets, you must learn how to predict and control your own
behavior.
Investment versus Speculation
25
a possible loss in market value, since he is sure of full repayment,
          
short holding period. The DJIA at its recurrent price level of 900 in
1971 yields 0nly 3.5%.
Let us assume that now, as in the past, the basic policy decision
to be made is how to divide the fund between high-grade bonds
  (a , s  )
DJIA-type
         
ditions, if we have no strong reason to predict either a significant
upward or a significant downward movement for some time in the
future? First let us point out that if there is no serious adverse
change, the defensive investor should be able to count on the cur-
rent 3.5% dividend return on his stocks and also on an average
annual appreciation of about 4%. As we shall explain later this
appreciation is based essentially on the reinvestment by the vari-
ous companies of a corresponding amount annually out of undis-
tributed profits. On a before-tax basis the combined return of his
stocks would then average, say, 7.5%, somewhat less than his inter-
est on high-grade bonds.* On an after-tax basis the average return
on stocks would work out at some 5.3%. This would be about the
same as is now obtainable on good tax-free medium-term bonds.
These expectations are much less favorable for stocks against
bonds than they were in our 1964 analysis. (That conclusion fol-
lows inevitably from the basic fact that bond yields have gone up
much more than stock yields since 1964.) We must never lose sight
* How well did Graham's forecast pan out? At first blush, it seems, very
wel: From the beginning of 1972 through the end of 1981, stocks earned
for his forecast, but it's plausible to assume that he was thinking of a 10-
year time horizon.) However, inflation raged at 8.6% annually over this
period, eating up the entire gain that stocks produced. In this section of his
chapter, Graham is summarizing what is known as the "Gordon equation,
which essentially holds that the stock market's future return is the sum of the
current dividend yield plus expected earnings growth. With a dividend yield
of just under 2% in early 2003, and. long-term earnings growth of around
2%, plus inflation at a bit over 2%o, a future average annual return of roughly
. 6% is plausible. (See the commentary on Chapter 3.)
26
TheIntelligent Investor
of the fact that the interest and principal payments on good bonds
are much better protected and therefore more certain than the divi-
dends and price appreciation on stocks. Consequently we are
forced to the conclusion that now, toward the end of 1971, bond
investment appears clearly preferable to stock investment. If we
could be sure that this conclusion is right we would have to advise
the defensive investor to put all his money in bonds and none in
common stocks until the current yield relationship changes signifi-
cantly in favor of stocks.
But of course we cannot be certain that bonds will work out bet-
ter than stocks from today's levels. The reader will immediately
think of the inflation factor as a potent reason on the other side. In
the next chapter we shall argue that our considerable experience
with inflation in the United States during this century would not
support the choice of stocks against bonds at present differentials
in yield. But there is always the possibility-—-though we consider it
remote -of an accelerating inflation, which in one way or another
would have to make stock equities preferable to bonds payable in a
fixed amount of dollars.* There is the alternative possibility-
which we also consider highly unlikely--that American business
will become so profitable, without stepped-up inflation, as to jus-
tify a large increase in common-stock values in the next few years.
another great speculative rise in the stock market without a real
justification in the underlying values. Any of these reasons, and
perhaps others we haven't thought of, might cause the investor to
regret a 100% concentration on bonds even at their more favorable
yield levels.
Hence, after this foreshortened discussion of the major consider-
ations, we once again enunciate the same basic compromise policy
* Since 1997, when Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (or TIPS) were
for investors who expect inflation to increase. TIPS, unlike other bonds, rise
in value if the Consumer Price Index goes up, effectively immunizing the
investor against losing money after inflation. Stocks carry no such guarantee
o) uoeu! jo se' yhy ssuiebe abpey ood Aleele e ae 'ioe, u! pu
more details, see the commentary to Chapter 2.)
Investment versus Speculation
27
for defensive investors--namely that at all times they have a signif-
icant part of their funds in bond-type holdings and a significant
part also in equities. It is still true that they may
 choose between
maintaining a simple 50-50 division between the two components
or a ratio, dependent on their judgment, varying between a mini-
mum of 25% and a maximum of 75% of either. We shall give our
more detailed view of these alternative policies in a later chapter.
. Since at present the overall return envisaged from common stocks
is nearly
y the same as that from bonds, the presently expectable
return (including growth of stock values) for the investor would
change little regardless of how he divides his fund between the
two components. As calculated above, the aggregate return from
both parts should be about 7.8% before taxes or 5.5% on a tax-free
(or estimated tax-paid) basis. A return of this order is appreciably
higher than that realized by the typical conservative investor over
most of the long-term past. It may not seem attractive in relation to
the 14%, or so, return shown by common stocks during the 20
years of the predominantly bull market after 1949. But it should be
remembered that between 1949 and 1969 the price of the DJIA had
advanced more than fivefold while its earnings and dividends had
about doubled. Hence the greater part of the impressive market
record for that period was based on a change in investors' and
speculators' attitudes rather than in underlying corporate values.
To that extent it might well be called a "bootstrap operation."
In discussing the common-stock portfolio of the defensive
investor, we have spoken only of leading
g  issues of the  type
included in the 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Aver-
age. We have done this for convenience, and not to imply that these
30 issues alone are suitable for purchase by him. Actually, there are
many other companies of quality equal to or excelling the average
of the Dow Jones list; these would include a host of public utilities
 e    s  s   )
* Today, the most widely available alternatives to the Dow Jones Industrial
Average are the Standard & Poor's 5o0-stock index (the "S & P") and the
Wilshire 5000 index. The S & P focuses on 500 large, well-known compa-
nies that make up roughly 7o% of the total value of the U.S. equity market.
The Wiishire 50o0 follows the returns of nearly every significant, publicly
28
The Intelligent Investor
the major point here is that the defensive investor's overall results
are not likely to be decisively. different from one diversified or rep-
resentative list than from another, or--more accurately-—that nei-
ther he nor his advisers could predict with certainty whatever
differences would ultimately develop. It is true that the art of skill-
ful or shrewd investment is supposed to lie particularly in the
selection of issues that will give better results than the general mar-
ket. For reasons to be developed elsewhere we are skeptical of the
ability of defensive investors generally to get better than average
results-which in fact would mean to beat their own overall per-
formance.* (Our skepticism extends to the management of large
: funds by experts.)
Let us illustrate our point by an example that at first may seem
to prove the opposite. Between December 1960 and December 1970
the DJIA advanced from 616 to 839, or 36%. But in the same period
the much larger Standard & Poor's weighted index of 500 stocks
rose from 58.11 to 92.15, or 58%. Obviously the second group had
rash as to predict in 1960 that what seemed like a miscellaneous
assortment of all sorts of common stocks would definitely outper-
form the aristocratic "thirty tyrants" of the Dow? All this proves,
        ss 
about price changes, absolute or relative.
We shall repeat here without apology---for the warning cannot
be given too often--that the investor cannot hope for better than
Aue go snsst o, ro 'shuo mau sunq Aq shnsar ateae
sort, meaning thereby those recommended for a quick profit.+ The
s  s n        si 
investor must confine himself to the shares of important companies
with a long record of profitable operations and in strong financial
condition. (Any security analyst worth his salt could make up such
nies account for most of the total value of the index, the return of the
Wilshire 5000 is usually quite similar to that of the S & P 500. Several low-
cost mutual funds enable investors to hold the stocks in these indexes as a
single, convenient portfolio. (See Chapter 9.)
* See pp. 363-366 and pp. 376-380.
+ For greater detail, see Chapter 6.
Investment versus Speculation
29
a list.) Aggressive investors may buy other types of common
stocks, but they should be on a definitely attractive basis as estab-
lished by intelligent analysis.
To conclude this section, let us mention briefly three supplemen-
tary concepts or practices for the defensive investor. The first is the
purchase of the shares of well-established investment funds as an
alternative to creating his own common-stock portfolio. He might
o,  s snn ,   o n os
funds," operated by trust companies and banks in many states; or,
if his funds are substantial, use the services of a recognized invest-
of his investment program along standard lines. The third is the
practitioner invests in common stocks the same number of dollars
each month or each quarter. In this way he buys more shares when
the market is low than when it is high, and he is likely to end up
with a satisfactory overall price for all his holdings. Strictly speak-
ing, this method is an application of a broader approach known as
"formula investing." The latter was already alluded to in our sug-
gestion that the investor may vary his holdings of common stocks
between the 25% minimum and the 75% maximum, in inverse rela-
tionship to the action of the market. These ideas have merit for the
defensive investor, and they will be discussed more amply in later
chapters.*
Results to Be Expected by the Aggressive Investor
Our enterprising security buyer, of course, will desire and
expect to attain better overall results than his defensive or passive
companion. But first he must make sure that his results will not be
worse. It is no difficult trick to bring a great deal of energy, study.
and native ability into Wall Street and to end up with losses instead
of profits. These virtues, if channeled in the wrong directions,
become indistinguishable from handicaps. Thus it is most essential
that the enterprising investor start with a clear conception as to
* For more advice on "wel-established investment funds," see Chapter 9.
"Professional administration" by “a recognized investment-counsel firm" is
discussed in Chapter 10. "Dollar-cost averaging" is explained in Chapter 5.
30
The Intelligent Investor
which courses of action offer reasonable chances of success and
which do not.
First let us consider several ways in which investors and specu-
results. These include:
