### 1999. They lost an average of 79.1% in 2000, 35.5% in 2001, and 44.5%

in 2002-destroying all the gains of 1999, and then some.
Commentary on Chapter 1
39
Morgan Stanley, ran a TV commercial in which a scruffy tow-truck
driver picks up a prosperous-looking executive. Spotting a photo of a
tropical beachfront posted on the dashboard, the executive asks,
"Vacation?" "Actually" replies the driver, "that's my home" Taken
aback, the suit says, "Looks like an island" With quiet triumph, the
driver answers, "Technically, it's a country."
The propaganda went further. Online trading would take no work
and require no thought. A television ad from Ameritrade, the online
broker, showed two housewives just back from jogging; one logs on
to her computer, clicks the mouse a few times, and exults, "I think I just
made about $1,7oo!" In a TV commercial for the Waterhouse broker-
age firm, someone asked basketball coach Phil Jackson, "You know
anything about the trade?" His answer: "l'm going to make it right
now" (How many games would Jackson's NBA teams have won if he
had brought that philosophy to courtside? Somehow, knowing noth-
ing about the other team, but saying, "l'm ready to play them right
now," doesn't sound like a championship formula.)
By 1999 at least six million people were trading online-and roughly
a tenth of them were “day trading" using the Internet to buy and sell
stocks at lightning speed. Everyone from showbiz diva Barbra
Streisand to Nicholas Birbas, a 25-year-old former waiter in Queens,
New York, was flinging stocks around like live coals. "Before," scoffed
Birbas, “l was investing for the long term and I found out that it was not
smart!" Now, Birbas traded stocks up to 10 times a day and expected
to earn $100,000 in a year. "I can't stand to see red in my profit-or-loss
column, Streisand shuddered in an interview with Fortune. "l'm Taurus
the bull, so I react to red. If I see red, I sell my stocks quickly!"'5
By pouring continuous data about stocks into bars and barber-
shops, kitchens and cafes, taxicabs and truck stops, financial web-
sites and financial TV turned the stock market into a nonstop national
video game. The public felt more knowledgeable about the markets
than ever before. Unfortunately, while people were drowning in data,
knowledge was nowhere to be found. Stocks became entirely decou-
5 Instead of stargazing, Streisand should have been channeling Graham.
The intelligent investor never dumps a stock purely because its share price
has fallen; she always asks first whether the value of the company's underly
ing businesses has changed.
40
Commentary on Chapter 1
pled from the companies that had issued them-pure abstractions, just
blips moving across a TV or computer screen. If the blips were moving
up, nothing else mattered.
On December 20, 1999, Juno Online Services unveiled a trailblaz-
ing business plan: to lose as much money as possible, on purpose.
Juno announced that it would henceforth offer all its retail services for
free-no charge for e-mail, no charge for lnternet access-and that it
would spend millions of dollars more on advertising over the next year.
On this declaration of corporate hara-kiri, Juno's stock roared up from
$16.375 to $66.75 in tw0 days.6
Why bother learning whether a business was profitable, or what
goods or services a company produced, or who its management was,
mouy o papaau nof iiv isem aweu s,Kuedwoo au teym uasa 1o
about stocks was the catchy code of their ticker symbols: CBLT, INKT,
PCLN, TGLO, VRSN, WBVN.7 That way you could buy them even
faster, without the pesky two-second delay of looking them up on an
Internet search engine. In late 1998, the stock of a tiny, rarely traded
building-maintenance company, Temco Services, nearly tripled in a
matter of minutes on record-high volume. Why? In a bizarre form of
financial dyslexia, thousands of traders bought Temco after mistaking
its ticker symbol, TMCO, for that of Ticketmaster Online (TMCS), an
Internet darling whose stock began trading publicly for the first time
that day.8
Oscar Wilde joked that a cynic "knows the price of everything, and
the value of nothing" Under that definition, the stock market is always
cynical, but by the late 1990s it would have shocked Oscar himself. A
single half-baked opinion on price could double a company's stock
even as its value went entirely unexamined. in late 1998, Henry Blod-
net stocks, a valuation is clearly more art than science." Then, citing
only the possibility of future growth, he jacked up his "price target" on
* Just 12 months later, Juno's shares had shriveled to $1.093.
company's name used as shorthand to identify a stock for trading purposes.
: This was not an isolated incident; on at least three other occasions in the
late 1990s, day traders sent the wrong stock soaring when they mistook its
Commentary on Chapter 1
41
Amazon.com from $150 to $400 in one fell swoop. Amazon.com shot
was a one-year forecast-soared past $400 in just three weeks. A year
later, PaineWebber analyst Walter Piecyk predicted that Qualcomm
stock would hit $1,000 a share over the next 12 months. The stock-
already up 1,842% that year-soared another 31% that day, hitting
$659 a share.
FroM Formula to fiasco
But trading as if your underpants are on fire is not the only form of
speculation. Throughout the past decade. or so, one speculative for-
mula after another was promoted, popularized, and then thrown aside.
All of them shared a few traits-This is quick! This is easy! And it won't
hurt a bit!-and all of them violated at least one of Graham's distinc-
tions between investing and speculating. Here are a few of the trendy
formuias that fell flat:
Cash in on the calendar. The "January effect"-the tendency of
small stocks to produce big gains around the turn of the year-
was widely promoted in scholarly articles and popular books pub-
lished in the 1980s. These studies showed that if you piled into
small stocks in the second half of December and held them into
aesuaoiad ol oi aay Kg iayew aun peeg pinom nor Xrenuer
points. That amazed many experts. After all, if it were this easy,
't! op pinom aldoad jo siol 't! inoqe jeay pinom auohasa Klauns
and the opportunity would wither away.
What caused the January jolt? First of all, many investors sell
their crummiest stocks late in the year to lock in losses that can
cut their tax bills. Second, professional money managers grow
more cautious as the year draws to a close, seeking to preserve
their outperformance (or minimize their underperformance). That
makes them reluctant to buy (or even hang on to) a falling stock.
And if an underperforming stock is also small and obscure, a
money manager will be even less eager to show it in his year-end
e In 2000 and 2001, Amazon.com and Qualcomm lost a cumulative total of
85.8% and 71.3%o of their value, respectively.
42
Commentary on Chapter 1
list of holdings. All these factors turn small stocks into momentary
bargains; when the tax-driven selling ceases in January, they typi-
cally bounce back, producing a robust and rapid gain.
The January effect has not withered away, but it has weakened.
According to finance professor William Schwert of the University of
Rochester, if you had bought small stocks in late December and
sold them in early January, you would have beaten the market by 8.5
percentage points from 1962 through 1979, by 4.4 points from
1980 through 1989, and by 5.8 points from 1990 through 2001.10
As more people learned about the January effect, more traders
bought small stocks in December, making them less of a bargain
and thus reducing their returns. Also, the January effect is biggest
among the smallest stocks-but according to Plexus Group, the
leading authority on brokerage expenses, the total cost of buying
and selling such tiny stocks can run up'to 8% of your invest-
gains on the January effect will melt away.
abeu Kauow anosqo ue 'gee1 ul :syom eym, op snr
named James O'Shaughnessy published a book called What
Works on Wall Street. In it, he argued that "investors can do
much better than the market:" O'Shaughnessy made a stunning
claim: From 1954 through 1994, you could have turned $10,000
into $8,074,504, beating the market by more than 10-fold-a tow-
ering 18.2% average annual return. How? By buying a basket of
50 stocks with the highest one-year returns, five straight years of
rising earnings, and share prices less than 1.5 times their corpo-
rate revenues.2 As if he were the Edison of Wall Street,
O'Shaughnessy obtained U.S. Patent No. 5,978,778 for his "auto-
mated strategies" and launched a group of four mutual funds
based on his findings. By late 1999 the funds had sucked in more
than $175 million from the public-and, in his annual letter to
shareholders, O'Shaughnessy stated grandly: "As always, I hope
10 Schwert discusses these findings in a brilliant research paper, “Anomalies and
11 See Plexus Group Commentary 54, "The Official lcebergs of Transaction
Costs," January, 1998, at www.plexusgroup.com/fs_research.html.
12 James O'Shaughnessy, What Works on Wall Street (McGraw-Hill, 1996).
pp. xvi, 273-295.
Commentary on Chapter 1
43
that together, we can reach our long-term goals by staying the
course and sticking with our time-tested investment strategies."
But "whiat works on Wall Street" stopped working right after
O'Shaughnessy publicized it. As Figure 1-2 shows, two of his
funds stank so badly that they shut down in early 2000, and the
FIGURE 1-2
What Used to Work on Wall Street . . :
$250
Value of $100 invested on November 1, 1996
$200
$150
$100
$50
o$
Nov-96
Feb-97
Aug-97
Nov-97
Feb-98
Aug-98
Nov-98
Feb-99
Aug-99
66-AON
Feb-00
May-97
May-98
May-99
May-00
Aug-00
- - O'Shaughnessy Cornerstone Growth
O'Shaughnessy Cornerstone Value
 . .·O'Shaughnessy Aggressive Growth
- - O'Shaughnessy Dogs of the Market
Standard & Poor's 500 stock index
Source: Morningstar, Inc.
44
Commentary on Chapter 1
overall stock market (as measured by the S & P 5o0 index) wal-
loped every O'Shaughnessy fund almost nonstop for nearly four
years running.
In June 20oo, O'Shaughnessy moved closer to his own "long-
term goals" by turning the funds over to a new manager, leaving
investment strategies."13 O'Shaughnessy's shareholders might
have been less upset if he had given his book a more precise
title--for instance, What Used to Work on Wall Street. . . Until.!
Wrote This Book.
Follow “The Foolish Four: In the mid-1990s, the Motley Fool
website (and several books) hyped the daylights out of a tech-
nique called "The Foolish Four?" According to the Motley Fool, you 
would have "trashed the market averages over the last 25 years"
and could “crush your mutual funds" by spending “only 15 min-
utes a year" on planning your investments. Best of all, this tech-
nique had "minimal risk" All you needed to do was this:
