### 1949. Comparing the average level of 1949 with that of 1924, we

find the annual rate of advance to be a mere 1%%; hence the close of
our second period found the public with no enthusiasm at all for
common stocks. By the rule of opposites the time was ripe for the
beginning of the greatest bull market in our history, presented in
the last third of our chart. This phenomenon may have reached its
culmination in December 1968 at 118 for Standard & Poor's 425
  1 ( s-o 1   1) 
shows, there were fairly important setbacks between 1949 and 1968
(especially in 1956-57 and 1961-62), but the recoveries therefrom
were so rapid that they had to be denominated (in the long-
accepted semantics) as recessions in a single bull market, rather
than as separate market cycles. Between the low level of 162 for
"the Dow" in mid-1949 and the high of 995 in early 1966, the
advance had been more than sixfold in 17 years-which is at the
average compounded rate of 11% per year, not counting dividends
of, say, 3%% per annum. (The advance for the Standard & Poor's
composite index was somewhat greater than that of the DJIA-
actually from 14 to 96.)
These 14% and better returns were documented in 1963, and
later, in a much publicized study.*2 It created a natural satisfaction
* The study, in its final form, was Lawrence Fisher and James H. Lorie,
"Rates of Return on lnvestments in Common Stock: the Year-by-Year
125
100
06
80
7
5
4
30
8
6
4
10
2
8
1
一
5
4
2
RATIO SCALE
STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK PRICE INDEXES
1941-1943=10
MONTHLYAVERAGEOF 425STOCKS
TTTT
TT
CHART 1
125
0
0
0
0
0
5
90
30
0:8:
6
2
10
6
5
4
0
9
8
7
6
2:1
1
A Century of Stock-Market History
69
on Wall Street with such fine achievements, and a quite illogical and
dangerous conviction that equally marvelous results
s could be
expected for common stocks in the future. Few people seem to have
been bothered by the thought that the very extent of the rise might
indicate that it had been overdone. The subsequent decline from the
1968 high to the 1970 low was 36% for the Standard & Poor's com-
posite (and 37% for the DJIA), the largest since the 44% suffered in
1939-1942, which had reflected the perils and uncertainties after
Pearl Harbor. In the dramatic manner so characteristic of Wall
Street, the low level of May 1970 was followed by a massive and
speedy recovery of both averages, and the establishment.of a new
all-time high for the Standard & Poor's industrials in early 1972.
The annual rate of price advance between 1949 and 1970 works out
at about 9% for the S & P composite (or the industrial index), using
the average figures for both years. That rate of climb was, of course,
much greater than for any similar period before 1950. (But in the last
decade the rate of advance was much lower--5%% for the S & P
composite index and only the once familiar 3% for the DJIA.)
The record of price movements should be supplemented by cor-
responding figures for earnings and dividends, in order to provide
an overall view of what has happened to our share economy over
the ten decades. We present a conspectus of this kind in our Table
3-2 (p. 71). It is a good deal to expect from the reader that he study
all these figures with care, but for some we hope they will be inter-
esting and instructive.
Let us comment on them as follows: The full decade figures
smooth out the year-to-year fluctuations and leave a general pic-
ture of persistent growth. Only two of the nine decades after the
-e e s a     e as 
and 1931-1940), and no decade after 1900 shows a decrease in aver-
age dividends. But the rates of growth in all three categories are
quite variable. In general the performance since World War II has
     's     s 
1960s was less pronounced than that of the 1950s. Today's investor
Record, 1926-65, The Journal of Business, vol. XLl, no. 3 (July, 1968),
pp. 291-316. For a summary of the study's wide influence, see http://
library.dfaus.com/reprints/work_of_art/.
70
TheIntelligent Investor
cannot tell from this record what percentage gain in earnings divi-
dends and prices he may expect in the next ten years, but it does
supply all the encouragement he needs for a consistent policy of
common-stock investment.
However, a point should be made here that is not disclosed in
our table. The year 1970 was marked by a definite deterioration in
the overall earnings posture of our corporations. The rate of profit
     a    p g
War years. Equally striking is the fact that a considerable number
of companies reported net losses for the year; many became "finan-
cially troubled," and for the first time in three decades there were
   s     s
e      s  s s
that the great bo0m era may have come to an end in 1969-1970.
A striking feature of Table 3-2 is the change in the price/earn-
ings ratios since World War II.t In June 1949 the S & P composite
index sold at only 6.3 times the applicable earnings of the past 12
           s
dend yield on the S & P index had fallen from over 7% in 1949 to
only 3.0% in 1961, a contrast heightened by the fact that interest
      s   s
4.50%. This is certainly the most remarkable turnabout in the
public's attitude in all stock-market history.
To people of long experience and innate caution the passage
from one extreme to another carried a strong warning of trou-
ble ahead. They could not help thinking apprehensively of the
1926--1929 bull market and its tragic aftermath. But these fears have
not been.confirmed by the event. True, the closing price of the DJIA
* See pp. 50-52.
+ The “price/earnings ratio" of a stock, or of a market average like the S & P
500-stock index, is a simple tool for taking the market's temperature. If, for
instance, a company earned $1 per share of net income over the past year.
and its stock is selling at $8.93 per share, its price/earnings ratio would be
8.93; if, however, the stock is selling at $69.70, then the price/earnings ratio
wouid be 69.7. In general, a price/earnings ratio (or "P/E" ratio) below 10 is
considered low, between 10 and 20 is considered moderate, and greater
than 20 is considered expensive. (For more on P/E ratios, see p. 168.)
s a  pe gh aq sa g sx ys  yoq uiss so a   e  u s i 
Dividends
Annual GrowthRateb
-0.66%
+5.40c
p082+
+4.42d
+5.60d
-2.23
+5.33
+3.94
+2.29
-0.23
+3.25
+5.90
一
Earnings
0.64%
5.80c
2.40d
5.15d
+ 6.30d
1.04
6.91
3.85
2.84
2.15
+10.60
4'9 +
1
+
+
+
+
+
+
Average
Payout
67%
15
9
8
8
8
6
5
5
8
6
Average
6.0%
7
00
2
8
5
5
8
2
3
3
3
TABLE 3-2 A Picture of Stock-Market Performance, 1871-1970a
, re s, Aysap  u eadde sany uo aare pseq eep umo au e
puapiaia
Average
0.21
0.24
0.19
0.35
0.50
12'0
0.78
0.87
1.63
2.68
1.64
2.14
3.13
.....
Standard & Poor's 500-stock composite index for 1926 to date.
Average
P/E Ratio
11.3
15.6
15.5
13.1
10.0
13.3
17.0
5
13.1
15.1
18.1
16.7
:
Average
Earnings
 Growth rate for 1968-1970 vs. 1958-1960.
0.32
0.32
0.30
0.63
0.86
1.05
0.68
1.46
3.00
4.83
2.56
3.66
5.60
Average
Price
3.58
5.00
4.65
8.32
8.62
13.89
11.55
13.90
39.20
82.50
38.19
66.10
93.25
1871-1880
1881-1890
1891-1900
1901-1910
1911-1920
1921-1930
1931-1940
1941-1950
1951-1960
1961-1970
1954-1956
1961--1963
1968--1970
Period
72
The Intelligent Investor
in 1970 was the same as it was 6% years earlier, and the much her-
alded "Soaring Sixties" proved to be mainly a march up a series of
high hills and then down again. But nothing has happened either
to business or to stock prices that can compare with the bear mar-
ket and depression of 1929-1932.
The Stock-Market Level in Early 1972
With a century-long conspectus of stock, prices, earnings, and
dividends before our eyes, let us try to draw some conclusions
about the level of 900 for the DJIA and 100 for the S & P composite
index in January 1972.
In each of our former editions we have discussed the level of the
stock market at the time of writing, and endeavored to answer the
question whether it was too high for conservative purchase. The
reader may find it informing to review the conclusions we reached
S      s s s   
punishment. It will supply a sort of connecting tissue that links the
various stages of the stock market in the past twenty years and also
a taken-from-life picture of the difficulties facing anyone who tries
to reach an informed and critical judgment of current market lev-
els. Let us, first, reproduce the summary of the 1948, 1953, and 1959
analyses that we gave in the 1965 edition:
In 1948 we applied conservative standards to the Dow Jones
level of 180, and found no difficulty in reaching the conclusion that
a m , sa n on u  y on  sm t
approached this problem in 1953 the average market level for that
year had reached 275, a gain of over 50% in five years. We asked
ourselves the same question—namely, "whether in our opinion the
level of 275 for the Dow Jones Industrials was or was not too high
for sound investment." In the light of the subsequent spectacular
advance, it may seem strange to have to report that it was by no
means easy for us to reach a definitive conclusion as to the attrac-
tiveness of the 1953 level. We did say, positively enough, that
"from the standpoint of value indications--our chief investment
guide--the conclusion about 1953 stock prices must be favorable."
But we were concerned about the fact that in 1953, the averages
had advanced for a longer period than in most bull markets of the
A Century of Stock-Market History
73
past, and that its absolute level was historically high. Setting these
factors against our favorable value judgment, we advised a cau-
tious or compromise policy. As it turned out, this was not a partic-
ularly brilliant counsel. A good prophet would have foreseen that
the market level was due to advance an additional 1o0% in the
next five years. Perhaps we should add in self-defense that few if
any of those whose business was stock-market forecasting--as
ours was nothad any better inkling than we did of what lay
ahead.
 -ne e  a     r q  r
of 584. Our lengthy analysis made from all points of view may be
summarized in the following (from page 59 of the 1959 edition):
"In sum, we feel compelled to express the conclusion that the pres-
ent level of stock prices is a dangerous one. It may well be perilous
because prices are already far too high. But even if this is not the
case the market's momentum is such as inevitably to carry it to
unjustifiable heights. Frankly, we cannot imagine a market of the
future in which there will never be any serious losses, and in
which, every tyro will be guaranteed a large profit on his stock
purchases."
The caution we expressed in 1959 was somewhat better justi-
fied by the sequel than was our corresponding attitude in 1954. Yet
it was far from fully vindicated. The DJIA advanced to 685 in 1961;
then fell a little below our 584 level (to .566) later in the year;
advanced again to 735 in late 1961; and then declined in near panic
to 536 in May 1962, showing a loss of 27% within the brief period
of six months. At the same time there was a far more serious
shrinkage in the most popular "growth stocks"—-as evidenced by
the striking fall of the indisputable leader, International Business
Machines, from a high of 607 in December 1961 to a low of 300 in
June 1962.
This period saw a complete debacle in a host of newly launched
common stocks of small enterprises--the so-called hot issues--
which had been offered to the public at ridiculously high prices
and then had been further pushed up by needless speculation to
 levels little short of insane. Many of these lost 90% and more of the
quotations in just a few months.
The collapse in the first half of 1962 was disconcerting, if not
disastrous, to many self-acknowledged speculators and perhaps
74
TheIntelligent Investor
unsuspected by the financial community. The stock-market aver-
ages resumed their upward course, producing the following
sequence:
Standard & Poor's
DJIA
500-StockComposite
December 1961
735
72.64
June 1962
536
52.32
November 1964
892
86.28
The recovery and new ascent of common-stock prices was
indeed remarkable and created a corresponding revision of Wall
Street sentiment. At the low level of June 1962 predictions had
appeared predominantly bearish, and after the partial recovery to
the end of that year they were mixed, leaning to the skeptical side.
But at the outset of 1964 the natural optimism of brokerage firms
          
side, and they s0 continued through the 1964 advance.
We then approached the task of appraising the November 1964
levels of the stock market (892 for the DJIA). After discussing
it learnedly from numerous angles we reached three main con-
clusions. The first was that "old standards (of valuation) appear
inapplicable; new standards have not yet been tested by ti
time."
The second was that the investor "must base his policy on the
existence of major uncertainties. The possibilities compass the
extremes, on the one hand, of a protracted and further advance in
the market's level-say by 50%, or to 1350 for the DJA; or, on the
other hand, of a largely unheralded collapse of the same magni-
tude, bringing the average in the neighborhood of, say, 450"
(p. 63). The third was expressed in much more definite terms. We
  on  si       , 
could we say that any price level is too high?" And the chapter
closed as follows:
A Century of Stock-Market History
75
WHAT COURSE TO FOLLOW
Investors should not conclude that the 1964 market level is dan-
gerous merely because they read it in this book. They must weigh
our reasoning against the contrary reasoning they will hear from
most competent and experienced people on Wall Street. In the end
each one must make his own decision and accept responsibility
therefor. We suggest, however, that if the investor is in doubt as to
which course to pursue he should choose the path of caution. The
principles of investment, as set forth herein, would call for the fol-
lowing policy under 1964 conditions, in order of urgency:
