### 1949. (This was the expectation of Wall Street generally

Iduring
1971.) After the terrible experience suffered by the public buyers of
low-grade common-stock offerings in the 1968-1970 cycle, it is to0
early (in 1971) for another twirl of the new-issue merry-go-round.
      s   
lacking now, as .it was at the 892 level of the DJIA in November
1964, considered in our previous edition. Technically, then, the out-
look would appear to favor another substantial rise far beyond the
900 DJIA level before the next serious setback or collapse. But we
cannot quite leave the matter there, as perhaps we should. To us,
the early-1971-market's disregard of the harrowing experiences of
less than a year before is a disquieting sign. Can such heedlessness
go unpunished? We think the investor must be prepared for diffi-
    e po    spe s 
the the 1969-1970 decline, or perhaps in the form of another bull-
market fling, to be followed by a more catastrophic collapse.3
A Century of Stock-Market History
79
What Course to Follow
Turn back to what we said in the last edition, reproduced on
 --        i   
DJIA in early 1972 as it was in late 1964.
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 3
You've got to be careful if you don't know where you're going,
'cause you might not get there.
-Yogi Berra
Bull-marKeT baloney
In this chapter, Graham shows how prophetic he can be. He looks
two years ahead, foreseeing the "catastrophic" bear market of
1973-1974, in which U.S. stocks lost 37%o of their value.' He als0
looks more than two decades into the future, eviscerating the logic of
market gurus and best-selling books that were not even on the horizon
in his lifetime.
The heart of Graham's argument is that the intelligent investor must
never forecast the future exclusively by extrapolating the past. Unfortu-
nately, that's exactly the mistake that one pundit after another made in
the 1990s. A stream of bullish books followed Wharton finance pro-
fessor Jeremy Siegel's Stocks for the Long Run (1994)-culminating,
in a wild crescendo, with James Glassman and Kevin Hassett's Dow
36,000, David Elias' Dow 40,000, and Charles Kadlec's Dow
100,000 (all published in 1999). Forecasters argued that stocks had
st s  o   o    
Therefore, they concluded, that's what investors should expect in the
future.
Some bulls went further. Since stocks had "always' beaten bonds
over any period of at least 30 years, stocks must be less risky than
bonds or even cash in the bank. And if you can eliminate all the risk of
owning stocks simply by hanging on to them long enough, then why
1 If dividends are not included, stocks fell 47.8% in those two years.
80
Commentary on Chapter 3
81
why, see the sidebar on p. 82.)
In 1999 and early 2000, bull-market baloney was everywhere:
On December 7, 1999, Kevin Landis, portfolio manager of the
Firsthand mutual funds, appeared on CNN's Moneyline telecast.
Asked if wireless telecommunication stocks were overvalued-
with many trading at infinite multiples of their earnings-Landis
had a ready answer. "lt's not a mania" he shot back. "Look at the
outright growth, the absolute value of the growth. It's big*
On January 18, 2000, Robert Froelich, chief investment strategist
at the Kemper Funds, declared in the Walf Street Journal: “lt's a
new world order. We see people discard all the right companies
with all the right people with the right vision because their stock
price is too high-that's the worst mistake an investor can make:"
In the April 10, 2000, issue of BusinessWeek, Jeffrey M. Apple-
gate, then the chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers,
      e ,  o
years ago simply because prices are higher? The answer is no."
But the answer is yes. It always has been. It always will be.
And when Graham asked, "Can such heedlessness go unpun-
ished?" he knew that the eternal answer to that question is no. Like an
enraged Greek god, the stock market crushed everyone who had
come to believe that the high returns of the late 1990s were some
kind of divine right. Just look at how those forecasts by Landis,
Froelich, and Applegate held up:
From 2000 through 2002, the most stable of Landis's pet wire-
less stocks, Nokia, lost "only" 67%o-while the worst, Winstar
Communications, lost 99.9%.
Froelich's favorite stocks-Cisco Systems and Motorola-fell more
than 70% by late 2002. Investors lost over $400 billion on Cisc0
alone-more than the annual economic output of Hong Kong.
Israel, Kuwait, and Singapore combined.
In April 2000, when Applegate asked his rhetorical question, the
Dow Jones Industrials stood at 11,187; the NASDAQ Composite
Index was at 4446. By the end of 2002, the Dow was hobbling
around the 8,300 level, while NASDAQ had withered to roughly
1300-eradicating all its gains over the previous six years.
Survival of the fartest
There was a fatal flaw in the argument that stocks have "always"
beaten bonds in the long run: Reliable figures before 1871 do
not exist. The indexes used to represent the U.S. stock market's
1800, however, there were some 300 companies in America
(many in the Jeffersonian equivalents of the Internet: wooden
turnpikes and canals). Most went bankrupt, and their investors
lost their knickers.
But the stock indexes ignore all the companies that went
bust in those early years, a problem technically known as "sur-
vivorship bias:" Thus these indexes wildly overstate the: results
necessary to know exactly which seven stocks to buy. A lonely
handfu! of companies, including Bank bf New York and j. P. Mor-
gan Chase, have prospered continuously since the 1790s. But
for every such miraculous survivor, there were thousands of
financial disasters like the Dismal Swamp Canal Co., the Penn-
sylvania Cuitivation of Vines Co., and the Snickers's Gap Turn-
pike Co.-all omitted from the "historical" stock indexes.
Jeremy Siegel's data show that, after inflation, from 1802
through 1870 stocks gained 7.0% per year, bonds 4.8%, and
cash 5.1%. But Elroy Dimson and his colleagues at London
Business School estimate that the pre-1871 stock returns are
real world, then, stocks did no better than cash and bonds-and
perhaps a bit worse. Anyone who claims that the long-term
record "proves" that stocks are guaranteed to outperform
bonds or cash is an ignoramus.
1 By the 1840s, these indexes had widened to include a maximum of seven finan-
cial stocks and 27 railroad stocks-still an absurdly unrepresentative sample of the
rambunctious young American stock market.
2 See Jason Zweig. "New Cause for Caution on Stocks" Time, May 6, 2002,
p. 71. As Graham hints 0n p. 65, even the stock indexes between 1871 and
the 1920s suffer from survivorship bias, thanks to the hundreds of automobile,
aviation, and radio companies that went bust without a trace. These returns,
too, are probably overstated by one to two percentage points.
Commentary on Chapter 3
83
The hiGher they Go,
THe Harder tHey FalL
As the enduring antidote to this kind of bull-market baloney, Graham
urges the intelligent investor to ask some simple, skeptical questions.
Why should the future returns of stocks always be the same as their
guaranteed to make money in the long run, won't the market end up
being wildly overpriced? And once that happens, how can future
returns possibly be high?
Graham's answers, as always, are rooted in logic and common
sense. The value of any investment is, and always must be, a function
of the price you pay for it. By the late 1990s, inflation was withering
world was at peace. But that did not mean-nor could it ever mean~
that stocks were worth buying at any price. Since the profits that com-
panies can earn are finite, the price that investors shou!d be willing to
pay for stocks must also be finite.
Think of it this way: Michael Jordan may well have been the great-
est basketball player of all time, and he pulled fans into Chicago Sta-
dium like a giant electromagnet. The Chicago Bulls got a bargain by
paying Jordan up to $34 milion a year to bounce a big leather ball
around a wooden floor. But that does not mean the Bulls would have
per season.
The liMits of oPtimism
warns Graham, will lead to “a quite illogical and dangerous conclusion
that equally marvelous results could be expected for common stocks
in the future:" From 1995 through 1999, as the market rose by at least
buyers became ever more optimistic:
In mid-1998, investors surveyed by the Gallup Organization for
the PaineWebber brokerage firm expected their portfolios to earn
an average of roughly 13% over the year to come. By early 2000,
their average expected return had jumped to more than 18%.
84
Commentary on Chapter 3
'Sophisticated professionals" were just as bullish, jacking up their
own assumptions of future returns. In 2o01, for instance, SBC
Communications raised the projected return on its pension plan
from 8.5% to 9.5%. By 2002, the average assumed rate of return
on the pension plans of companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-
stock index had swollen to a record-high 9.2%.
A quick follow-up shows the awful aftermath of excess enthusiasm:
Gallup found in 2001 and 2002 that the average expectation of
one-year returns on stocks had slumped to 7%o-even though
investors could now buy at prices nearly 50% lower than in
2000.2
Those gung-ho assumptions about the returns on their pension
plans will cost the companies in the S & P 500 a bare minimum of
$32 billion between 2002 and 2004, according to recent Wall
Street estimates.
Even though investors ail know they're supposed to buy low and
sell high, in practice they often end up getting it backwards. Graham's
warning in this chapter is simple: "By the rule of opposites" the more
enthusiastic investors become about the stock market in the long run,
the more certain they are to be proved wrong in the short run. On
March 24, 2000, the total value of the U.S. stock market peaked at
$14.75 trillion. By October 9, 2002, just 30 months later, the total
U.S. stock market was worth $7.34 trillion, or 50.2%o less-a loss of
$7.41 trillion. Meanwhile, many market pundits turned sourly bear-
ish, predicting flat or even negative market returns for years-even
decades-to come.
At this point, Graham would ask one simple question: Considering
how calamitously wrong the "experts" were the last time they agreed
on something, why on earth should the intelligent investor believe
them now?
2 Those cheaper stock prices do not mean, of course, that investors' expec-
tation of a 7o%o stock return will be realized.
Commentary on Chapter'3
85
What's next?
Instead, let's tune out the noise and think about future returns as Gra-
ham might. The stock market's performance depends on three factors:
real growth (the rise of companies' earnings and dividends)
inflationary growth (the general rise of prices throughout the
economy)
speculative growth-or decline (any increase or decrease in the
investing public's appetite for stocks)
In the long run, the yearly growth in corporate earnings per share
has averaged 1.5% to 2%o (not counting inflation). As of early 2003,
inflation was running around 2.4% annually; the dividend yield on
stocks was 1.9%o. So,
1.5% to 2%
+ 2.4%
+ 1.9%
= 5.8% to 6.3%
In the lorg run, that means you can reasonably expect stocks to
average roughly a 6% return (or 4% after inflation). If the investing
public gets greedy again and sends stocks back into orbit, then that
returns on stocks will go temporarily lower. (That's where we are in
2003.)
Robert Shiller, a finance professor at Yale University, says Graham
inspired his valuation approach: Shiller compares the current price of
the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index against average corporate
profits over the past 10 years (after inflation). By scanning the histori-
cal record, Shiller has shown that when his ratio goes well above 20,
the market usually delivers poor returns afterward; when it drops well
3 See Jeremy Siegel, Stocks for the Long Run (McGraw-Hill, 2002), p. 94,
and Robert Arnott and William Bernstein, "The Two Percent Dilution," work-
ing paper, July, 2002.
86
Commentary on Chapter 3
below 10, stocks typically produce handsome gains down the road. In
early 2003, by Shiller's math, stocks were priced at about 22.8 times
the average inflation-adjusted earnings of the past decade-still in the
danger zone, but way down from their demented level of 44.2 times
earnings in December 1999.
How has the. market done in the past when it was priced around
today's levels? Figure 3-1 shows the previous periods when stocks
were at similar highs, and how they fared over the 10-year stretches
that followed:
FIGURE 3-1
Price/earnings ratio
Total return over
Year
next 10 years
1898
21.4
9.2
1900
20.7
7.1
1901
21.7
5.9
1905
19.6
5.0
1929
22.0
-0.1
1936
21.1
4.4
1955
18.9
11.1
1959
18.6
7.8
1961
22.0
7.1
1962
18.6
9.9
1963
21.0
6.0
1964
22.8
1.2
1965
23.7
3.3
1966
19.7
6.6
1967.
21.8
3.6
1968
22.3
3.2
1972
18.6
6.7
1992
20.4
9.3
Averages
20.8
6.0
Sources: http: / / aida.econ.yale.edu / ~shiller /data/ie_data.htm;
Jack Wilson and Charles Jones, "An Analysis of the S & P 500 Index and Cowles'
Extensions: Price Index and Stock Returns, 1870-1999," The Journal of Business, vol.
75, no. 3, July, 2002, pp. 527-529; Ibbotson Associates.
Notes: Price/earnings ratio is Shiller calculation (10-year average real earnings of
S & P 500-stock index divided by December 31 index value). Total return is nominal
annual average.
Commentary on Chapter 3
87
So, from valuation levels similar to those of early 2o03, the stock
market has sometimes done very well in the ensuing 10 years, some-
times poorly, and muddled along the rest of the time. I think Graham,
ever the conservative, would split the difference between the lowest
and highest past returns and project that over the next decade stocks
will earn roughly 6% annually, or 4% after inflation. (Interestingly, that
projection matches the estimate we got earlier when we added
together real growth, inflationary growth, and speculative growth.)
Compared to the 1990s, 6% is chicken feed. But it's a whisker better
than the gains that bonds are likely to produce-and reason enough for
most investors to hang on to stocks as part of a diversified portfolio.
But there is a second lesson in Graham's. approach. The only thing
you can be confident of while forecasting future stock returns is that
you will probably turn out to be wrong. The only indisputable truth that
the past teaches us is·that the future will always surprise us-always!
And the corollary to that law of financial history is that the markets will
most brutally surprise the very people who are most certain that their
views about the future are right. Staying humble about your forecast-
ing powers, as Graham did, will keep you from risking too much on a
view of the future that may well turn out to be wrong.
So, by all means, you should lower your expectations--but take care
not to depress your spirit. For the intelligent investor, hope always
springs eternal, because it should. In the financial markets, the worse
the future looks, the better it usually turns out to be. A cynic once told
G. K. Chesterton, the British novelist and essayist, "Blessed is he who
expecteth nothing, for he shall not be disappointed? Chesterton's
everything."
