### 1. U.S. SAVINGS BONDS, SERIES E AND SERIES H. We shall firSt sum-

numerous advantages of these unique, attractive, and exceedingly
convenient investments. The Series H bonds pay interest semi-
annually, as do other bonds. The rate is 4.29% for the first year, and
then a flat 5.10% for the next nine years to maturity. Interest on the
Series E bonds is not paid out, but accrues to the holder through
increase in redemption value. The bonds are sold at 75% of their
face value, and mature at 100% in 5 years 10 months after purchase.
If held to maturity the yield works out at 5%, compounded semi-
annually. If redeemed earlier, the yield moves up from a minimum
of 4.01% in the first year to an average of 5.20% in the next 4% years.
Interest on the bonds is subject to Federal income tax, but is
exempt from state income tax. However, Federal income tax on the
Series E bonds may be paid at the holder's option either annually
as the interest accrues (through higher redemption value), or not
until the bond is actually disposed of.
Owners of Series E bonds may cash them in at any time (shortly
after purchase) at their current redemption value. Holders of Series
H bonds have similar rights to cash them in at par value (cost).
Series E bonds are exchangeable for Series H bonds, with certain
tax advantages. Bonds lost, destroyed, or stolen may l
be replaced
without cost. There are limitations on annual purchases, but liberal
provisions for co-ownership by family members make it possible
for most investors to buy as many as they can afford. Comment:
There is no other investment that combines (1) absolute assurance
of principal and interest payments, (2) the right to demand full
"money back" at any time, and (3) guarantee of at least a 5% inter-
est rate for at least ten years. Holders of the earlier issues of Series
E bonds have had the right to extend their bonds at maturity, and
thus to continue to accumulate annual values at successively
higher rates. The deferral of income-tax payments over these long
periods has been of great dollar advantage; we calculate it has
increased the effective net-after-tax rate received by as much as a
third in typical cases. Conversely, the right to cash in the bonds at
cost price or better has given the purchasers in former years of low
interest rates complete protection against the shrinkage in princi-
pal value that befell many bond investors; otherwise stated, it gave
them the possibility of benefiting from the rise in interest rates by
94
The Intelligent Investor
switching their low-interest holdings into very-high-coupon issues
on an even-money basis.
 In our view the special advantages enjoyed by owners of sav-
ings bonds now will more than compensate for their lower current
return as compared with other direct government obligations.
