### 2. OTHER UNITED STATES BONDs. A profusion of these issues exists,

covering a wide variety of coupon rates and maturity dates. All of
them are completely safe with respect to'payment of interest and
   s  h  n   
state income tax. In late 1971 the long-term issues-over ten years-
showed an average yield of 6.09%, intermediate issues (three to five
years) returned 6.35%, and short issues returned 6.03%.
In 1970 it was possible to buy a number of old issues at large dis-
counts. Some of these are accepted at par in settlement of estate
taxes. Example: The U.S. Treasury 3%s due 1990 are in this category;
they sold at 60 in 1970, but closed 1970 above 77.
It is interesting to note also that in many cases the indirect obli-
gations of the U.S. government yield appreciably more than its
direct obligations of the same maturity. As we write, an offering
appears of 7.05% of "Certificates Fully Guaranteed by the Secretary
of Transportation of the Department of Transportation of the
United States." The yield was fully 1% more than that on direct
obligations of the U.S., maturing the same year (1986). The certifi-
cates were actually issued in the name of the Trustees of the Penn
Central Transportation Co., but they were sold on the basis of a
into being a general obligation of the United States, backed by its
full faith and credit." Quite a number of indirect obligations of this
sort have been assumed by the U.S. government in the past, and all
of them have been scrupulously honored.
The reader may wonder why all this hocus-pocus, involving an
s   o   ss, de
tion, and a higher cost to the taxpayer in the end. The chief reason
for the indirection has been the debt limit imposed on govern-
  s  es   q 
  s      ao
shrewder investors. Perhaps the chief impact of this situation has
been the creation of tax-free Housing Authority bonds, enjoying
General PortfolioPolicy
95
the equivalent of a U.S. guarantee, and virtually the only tax-
exempt issues that are equivalent to government bonds. Another
type of govermment-backed issues is the recently created New
Community Debentures, offered to yield 7.60% in September 1971.
