### 1928. Four years later, under near-panic conditions, the price of

these good bonds fell to 62%, yielding 8%. By 1946, in a great rever-
sal, bonds of this type could be sold to yield only 3%, and the 5%
issue should have been quoted at close to 160. But at that point the
company took advantage of the call provision and redeemed the
issue at a mere 106.
The call feature in these bond contracts was a thinly disguised
instance of "heads I win, tails you lose." At long last, the bond-
buying institutions refused to accept this unfair arrangement; in
recent years most long-term high-coupon issues have been pro-
tected against redemption for ten years or more after issuance. This
still limits their possible price rise, but not inequitably. .
98
The Intelligent Investor
In practical terms, we advise the investor in long-term issues to
sacrifice a small amount of yield to obtain the assurance of non-
callability---say for 20 or 25 years. Similarly, there is an advantage
in buying a low-coupon bond* at a discount rather than a high-
the discounte.g., of a 3x% bond at 63%%, yielding 7.85%--carries
full protection against adverse call action.
Straight--i.e., Nonconvertible-Preferred Stocks
Certain general observations should be made here on the subject
of preferred stocks. Really good preferred stocks can and do exist,
but they are good in spite of their investment form, which is an
inherently bad one. The typical preferred shareholder is dependent
dends on its common stock. Once the common dividends are omit-
ted, or even in danger, his own position becomes precarious, for
the directors are under no obligation to continue paying him unless
they also pay on the common. On the other hand, the typical pre-
ferred stock carries no share in the company's profits beyond the
fixed dividend rate. Thus the preferred holder lacks both the legal
claim of the bondholder (or creditor) and the profit possibilities of
a common shareholder (or partner).
These weaknesses in the legal
I position of preferred stocks tend
to come to the fore recurrently
y in periods of depression. Only a
small percentage of all preferred issues are so strongly entrenched
as to maintain an unquestioned investment status through all vicis-
situdes. Experience teaches that the time to buy preferred stocks is
when their price is unduly depressed by temporary adversity. (At
too unconventional for the defensive investor.)
In other words, they should be bought on a bargain basis or not
at all. We shall refer later to convertible and similarly privileged
issues, which carry some special possibilities of profits. These are
not ordinarily selected for a conservative portfolio.
* A bond's "coupon" is its interest rate; a "low-coupon" bond pays a rate of
interest income below the market average.
General PortfolioPolicy
99
deserves mention. They have a much better tax status for corpora-
tion buyers than for individual investors. Corporations pay income
tax on only 15% of the income they receive in dividends, but on the
full amount of their ordinary interest income. Since the 1972 corpo-
rate rate is 48%, this means that $100 received as preferred-stock
dividends is taxed only $7.20, whereas $100 received as bond inter-
est is taxed $48. On the other hand, individual investors pay
exactly the same tax on preferred-stock investments as on bond
interest, except for a recent minor exemption. Thus, in strict logic,
all investment-grade preferred stocks should be bought by corpo-
rations, just as all tax-exempt bonds should be bought by investors
who pay income tax.*
Security Forms
The bond form and the preferred-stock form, as hitherto dis-
cussed, are well-understood and relatively simple matters. A bond-
on a definite date. The owner of a preferred stock is entitled to a
fixed dividend, and no more, which must be paid before any com-
mon dividend. His principal value does not come due on any spec-
ified date. (The dividend may be cumulative or noncumulative. He
may or may not have a vote.)
The above describes the standard provisions and, no doubt, the
departures from these forms. The best-known types are convertible
and similar issues, and income bonds. In the latter type, interest
does not have to be paid unless it is earned by the company.
(Unpaid interest may accumulate as a charge against future earn-
ings, but the period is often limited to three years.)
Income bonds should be used by corporations much more
* While Graham's logic remains valid, the numbers have changed. Corpora-
tions can currently deduct 7o% of the income they receive from dividends,
Aed pinom uoeodioo e 'snui ge s! aieu xei aieodioo pepuis aue pue
snsiaa yoois paaaid woy spuapip us oois uo xil u! on'ts Yybnos
$35 in tax on $100 in interest income. Individuals pay the same rate of
income tax on dividend income that they do on interest income, so preferred
stock offers them no tax advantage.
100
TheIntelligent Investor
extensively than they are. Their avoidance apparently arises from a
mere accident of economic history—namely, that they were first
employed in quantity in connection with railroad reorganizations,
and hence they have been associated from the start with financial
Weakness and poor investment status. But the form itself has sev-
eral practical advantages, especially in comparison with and in
substitution for the numerous (convertible) preferred-stock issues
of recent years. Chief of these is the deductibility of the interest
paid from the company's taxable income, which in effect cuts the
cost of that form of capital in half. From the investor's standpoint it
is probably best for him in most cases that he should have (1) an
unconditional right to receive interest payments when they are
earned by the company, and (2) a right to other forms of protection
than bankruptcy proceedings if interest is not earned and paid. The
terms of income bonds can be tailored to the advantage of both
the borrower and the lender in the manner best suited to both.
(Conversion privileges can, of course, be included.) The acceptance
by everybody of the inherently weak preferred-stock form and
the rejection of the stronger income-bond form is a fascinating
illustration of the way in which traditional institutions and habits
often tend to persist on Wall Street despite new conditions calling
for a fresh point of view. With every new wave of optimism or
pessimism, we are ready to abandon history and time-tested prin-
ciples, but we cling tenaciously and unquestioningly to our preju-
dices.
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 4
When you leave it to chance, then all of a sudden you don't
have any more luck.
--Basketball coach Pat Riley
That, says Graham, depends less on what kinds of investments you
an intelligent investor:
by continually researching, selecting, and monitoring a dynamic
mix of stocks, bonds, or mutual funds;
requires no further effort (but generates very litle excitement).
Graham calls the first approach "active" or "enterprising"; it takes
takes little time or effort but requires an almost ascetic detachment
from the alluring hullabaloo of the market. As the investment thinker
Charles Ellis has explained, the enterprising approach is physically
and intellectualy taxing, while the defensive approach is emotionally
demanding.'
If you have time to spare, are highly competitive, think like a sports
fan, and relish a complicated intellectual challenge, then the active
1 For more about the distinction between physically and intelliectually difficult
investing on the one hand, and emotionally difficult investing on the other,
see Chapter 8 and also Charles D. Elis, "Three Ways to Succeed as an
Investor," in Charles D. Ellis and James R. Vertin, eds., The Investor's Anthol-
ogy (John Wiley & Sons, 1997), p. 72.
101
102
Commentary on Chapter 4
approach is up your alley. If you always feel rushed, crave simplicity,
and don't relish thinking about money, then the passive approach is for
you. (Some people will feel most comfortable combining both meth-
ods-creating a portfolio that is mainly active and partly passive, or.
vice versa.)
Both approaches are equally intelligent, and you can be successful
with either-but only if you know yourself well enough to pick the right
one, stick with it over the course of your investing lifetime, and keep
your costs and emotions under control. Graham's distinction between
active and passive investors is another of his reminders that financial
risk lies not only where most of us look for it-in the economy or in our
investments-but also within ourselves.
Can you be brave, or will you cave?
How, then, shouid a defensive investor get started? The first and most
basic decision is how much to put in stocks and how much to put in
bonds and cash. (Note that Graham deliberately places this discus-
sion after his chapter on inflation, forearming you with the knowledge
that inflation is one of your worst enemies.)
The most striking thing about Graham's discussion of how to allo-
cate your assets between stocks and bonds is that he never mentions
the word "age:" That sets his advice firmly against the winds of con-
ventional wisdom-which holds that how much investing risk you ought
to take depends mainly on how old you are.2 A traditional rule of thumb
was to subtract your age from 1o0 and invest that percentage of your
assets in stocks, with the rest in bonds or cash. (A 28-year-old would
put 72% of her money in stocks; an 81-year-old would put only 19%
there.) Like everything else, these assumptions got overheated in the
than 30 you should put 95% of your money in stocks-even if you had
only a "moderate" tolerance for risk!3
up more than 30,oo0 online references.
* James K. Glassman and Kevin A. Hassett, Dow 36,000: The New Strategy
for Profiting from the Coming Rise in the Stock Market (Times Business,
1999), p. 250.
Commentary on Chapter 4
103
Unless you've allowed the proponents of this advice to subtract
100 from your IQ, you should be able to tell that something is wrong
An 89-year-old with $3 million, an ample pension, and a gaggle of
grandchildren would be foolish to move most of her money into bonds.
She already has plenty of income, and her grandchildren (who will
eventually inherit her stocks) have decades of investing ahead of
them. On the other hand, a 25-year-old who is saving for his wedding
and a house down payment would be out of his mind to put all his
money in stocks. If the stock market takes an Acapulco high dive, he
will have no bond income to cover his downside-or his backside.
What's more, no matter how young you are, you might suddenly
need to yank your money out of stocks not 40 years from now, but 40
minutes from now. Without a whiff of warning, you could lose your job,
get divorced, become disabled, or suffer who knows what other kind
must keep some assets in the riskless haven of cash.
Finally, many people stop investing precisely because the stock
very poor job of predicting today how we will feel about an emotionally
charged event in the future. When stocks are going up 15% or 20%
a year, as they did in the 1980s and 1990s, it's easy to imagine that
you and your stocks are married for life. But when you watch every
dollar you invested getting bashed down to a dime, it's hard to resist
bailing out into the "safety" of bonds and cash. Instead of buying and
holding their stocks, many people end up buying high, selling low, and
holding nothing but their own head in their hands. Because so few
investors have the guts to cling to stocks in a falling market, Graham
uh 'spuog ui g jo wnwuw e daay pinous auoaaa ee sisisuy
cushion, he argues, will give you the courage to keep the rest of your
money in stocks even when stocks stink.
To get a better feel for how much risk you can take, think about the
fundamental circumstances of your life, when they will kick in, when
lauea aas 'uouawouaud jeoibolouoisd s!yn uo Kessa bueuiosel e sos +
Gilbert and Timothy Wilson's "Miswanting" at www.wjh.harvard.edu/~dtg/
Gilbert_&_Wilson(Miswanting).pdf.
104
Commentary on Chapter 4
Are you single or married? What does your spouse or partner do
for a living?
Do you or will you have children? When will the tuition bills hit
home?
Will you inherit money, or will you end up financially responsible
for aging, ailing parents?
What factors might hurt your career? (lf you work for a bank or a
homebuilder, a jump in interest rates could put you out of a job. If
you work for a chemical manufacturer, soaring oil prices could be
bad news.)
If you are self-employed, how long do businesses similar to yours
tend to survive?
Do you need your investments to supplement your cash income?
(In general, bonds will; stocks won't.)
Kauow yonw moy 'spaau buipuads jnos pue Mejes snok uaai
can you afford to lose on your investments?
If, after considering these factors, you feel you can take the higher 
risks inherent in greater ownership of stocks, you belong around
Graham's minimum of 25% in bonds or cash. If not, then steer mostly
clear of stocks, edging toward Graham's maximum of 75% in bonds
or cash. (To find out whether you can go up to 100%, see the
sidebar on p. 105.)
Once you set these target percentages, change them only as your
life circumstances change. Do not buy more stocks because the stock
market has gone up; do not sell them because it has gone down. The
very heart of Graham's approach is to replace guesswork with disci-
pline. Fortunately, through your 401(k), it's easy to put your portfolio
on permanent autopilot. Let's say you are comfortable with a fairly high
level of risk-say, 70% of your assets in stocks and 30% in bonds. If
the stock market rises 25% (but bonds stay steady), you will now have
just under 75% in stocks and only 25% in bonds. Visit your 401(k)'s
website (or call its toll-free number) and sell. enough of your stock
funds to “rebalance" back to your 70-30 target. The key is to rebal-
ance on a predictable, patient schedule-not so often that you will
$ For the sake of simplicity, this example assumes that stocks rose instanta-
neously.
Commentary on Chapter 4
105
Why not 1oo% stocks?
      r   no e 
assets in stocks. But is putting all your money into the stock
market inadvisable for everyone? For a tiny minority of investors,
a 10o%-stock portfolio may make sense. You are one of them
if you:
have set aside enough cash to support your family for at least
one year
will be investing steadily for at least 20 years to come
survived the bear market that began in 2000
did not sell stocks during the bear market that began in 2000
2000
have read Chapter 8 in this book and implemented a formal
plan to control your own investing behavior.
Unless you can honestly pass all these tests, you have no
business putting all your money in stocks. Anyone who panicked
in the last bear market is going to panic in the next one-and will
regret having no cushion of cash and bonds.
of whack. I suggest that you rebalance every six months, no more
and no less, on easy-to-remember dates like New Year's and the
Fourth of July.
The beauty of this periodic rebalancing is that it forces you to base
your investing decisions on a simple, objective standard-Do 1 now
own more of this asset than my plan calls for?-instead of the sheer
guesswork of where interest rates are heading or whether you think
the Dow is about to drop dead. Some mutual-fund companies, includ-
ing T. Rowe Price, may soon introduce services that will automatically
rebalance your 401(k) portfolio to your preset targets, so you will
never need to make an active decision.
106
Commentary on Chapter 4
The Ins and Outs of incoMe InVesting
In Graham's day, bond investors faced two basic choices: Taxable or
tax-free? Short-term or long-term? Today there is a third: Bonds or
bond funds?
Taxable or tax-free? Unless you're in the lowest tax bracket, you
should buy only tax-free (municipal) bonds outside your retirement
accounts. Otherwise too much of your bond income will end up in the
hands of the IRS. The only place to own taxable bonds is inside your
401 (k) or another. sheltered account, where you will owe no current
tax on their income-and where municipal bonds have no place, since
their tax advantage goes to waste.?
Short-term or long-term? Bonds and interest rates teeter on
opposite ends of a seesaw: lf interest rates rise, bond prices fall-
although a short-term bond falls far less than a long-term bond. On the
other hand, if interest rates fall,.bond prices rise-and a long-term
bond will outperform shorter ones.8 You can spit the difference simply
: For the 2003 tax year, the bottom Federal tax bracket is for single people
earning less than $28,400 or married people (filing jointly) earning less than
$47,450.
7 Two good ontine calculators that will help you compare the after-tax in-
come of municipal and taxable bonds can be found at www.investinginbonds.
com/cgi-bin/calculator.pl and www.lebenthal.com/index_infocenter.html. To
decide if a “"muni" is right for you, find the “taxable equivalent yield" gener-
ated by these calculators, then compare that number to the yield currently
available on Treasury bonds (http://money.cnn.com/markets/bondcenter/ or
www.bloomberg.com/markets/C13.html). 1f the yield on Treasury bonds is
higher than the taxable equivalent yield, munis are not for you. In any case,
be warned that municipal bonds and funds produce lower income, and
more price fluctuation, than most taxable bonds. Also, the alternative mini-
mum tax, which now hits many middle-income Americans, can negate the
advantages of municipal bonds.
8 For an excellent introduction to bond investing, see http://flagship.van
guard.com/web/planret/AdvicePTIBInvestmentsinvestinglnBonds.html#inter
estRates. For an even simpler explanation of bonds, see http://money.cnn.
com/pf/101/lessons/7/. A “laddered" portfolio, holding bonds across a range
of maturities, is another way of hedging interest-rate risk.
Commentary on Chapter 4
107
by buying intermediate-term bonds maturing in five to 10 years-which
the ground either. For most investors, intermediate bonds are the sim-
plest choice, since they enable you to get out of the game of guessing
what interest rates will do.
Bonds or bond funds? Since bonds are generally sold in $10,000
lots and you need a bare minimum of 10 bonds to diversify away the
spuog jenpiipuy bung 'isng oe ybiw weun yo auo Aue jeyi ys
makes no sense unless you have at least $1oo,ooo to invest. (The
only exception is bonds issued by the U.S. Treasury, since they're pro-
tected against default by the full force of the American government.)
Bond funds offer cheap and easy diversification, along with the
convenience of monthly income, which you can reinvest right back into
the fund at current rates without paying a commission. For most
investors, bond funds beat individual bonds hands down (the main
exceptions are Treasury securities and some municipai bonds). Major
firms like Vanguard, Fidelity, Schwab, and T. Rowe Price offer a broad
menu of bond funds at low cost.9
The choices for bond investors have proliferated like rabbits, so
let's update Graham's list of what's available. As of 2003, interest
rates have fallen so low that investors are starved for yield, but there
are ways of amplifying your interest income without taking on exces-
sive risk.' Figure 4-1 summarizes the pros and cons.
Now let's look at a few types of bond investments that can fill spe-
cial needs.
CASH IS NOT TRASH
How can you wring. more income out of your cash? The intelligent
investor should consider moving out of bank certificates of deposit or
into some of these cash alternatives:
Treasury securities, as obligations of the U.S. government, carry
9 For more information, see www.vanguard.com, www.fidelity.com, www.
schwab.com, and www.troweprice.com.
10 For an accessible online summary of bond investing, see www.aai.com/
promo/20021118/bonds.shtml.
108
Commentary on Chapter 4
FIGURE 4-1 The Wide World of Bonds
 Minimum
Type
Maturity
purchase
Risk of default
Treasury bils
Less than one year
$1,000 (D)
Extremely low
Treasury notes
Between one and
$1,000 (D)
Extremely low
10 years
Treasury bonds
More than 10 yrs
$1,000 (D)
Extremely low
Savings bonds
Up to 30 years
$25 (D)
Extremely low
Certificates of deposit
One month to5 yrs
Usually $500
Very low; insured up to
$100,000
Money-market funds
397 days or less
Usually $2,500
Very low
Mortgage debt
One to 30 yrs
$2,000-3,000 (F)
Generally moderate
but'can be high
Municipal bonds
One to 30 yrs or more
$5,000 (D);
Generally moderate
$2,000-$3,000 (F) but can be high
Preferred stock
Indefinite
None
High
. High-yield ("junk") bonds
Seven to 20 yrs
$2,000-$3,000 (F) High
Emerging-markets debt
Up to 30 yrs
$2,000-$3,000 (F) High
Sources: Bankrate.com, Bloomberg, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Morningstar,
www.savingsbonds.gov
Notes: (D): purchased directly. (F): purchased through a mutual fund.
"Ease of sale before maturity" indicates how readily you can sell at a fair
price before maturity date; mutual funds typically offer better ease of sale
than individual bonds. Money-market funds are Federally insured up to
$100,000 if purchased at an FDiC-member bank, but otherwise carry only
an implicit pledge not to lose value. Federal income tax on savings bonds
is deferred until redemption or maturity. Municipal bonds are generally
exempt from state income tax only in the state where they were issued.
Commentary on Chapter 4
109
Exempt from
Ease of sale
2 most state
Exempt from
Risk if interest
t before
income
Federal
Yield
 rates rise
maturity
taxes?
income tax?
Benchmark
12/31/2002
Very low
High
Y
N
90-day
1.2
Moderate
High
人
N
5-year
2.7
10 year
3.8
High
High
人
N
30-year
4.8
Very low
Low
人
N
EE bond Series bought after
4.2
May 1995
Low
Low
N
N
1-year nat'l. avg.
1.5
Low
High
N
N
Taxable money market avg.
0.8
Moderate to
Moderate
N
N
Lehman Bros. MBS Index
4.6
high.
to low
Moderate to
Moderate
N
Y
National Long-Term Mutual
4.3
high
to low
Fund avg.
High
Moderate
N
N
None
Highly variable
to low
Moderate
Low
N
N
Merrill Lynch High Yield
11.9
Index
Moderate
Low
N
N
Emerg. Mkts Bond fund avg. 8.8
virtually no credit risk-since, instead of defaulting on his debts, Uncle
Sam can just jack up· taxes or print more money at will. Treasury bills
mature in four, 13, or 26 weeks. Because of their very short maturities,
T-bills barely get dented when rising interest rates knock down the
prices of other income investments; longer-term Treasury debt, how-
ever, suffers severely when interest rates rise. The interest income on
income tax. And, with $3.7 trillion in public hands, the market for Trea-
sury debt is immense, so you can readily find a buyer if you need your
money back before maturity. You can buy .Treasury bills, short-term
notes, and long-term bonds directly from the government, with no bro-
kerage fees, at www.publicdebt.treas.gov. (For more on inflation-
protected T1PS, see the commentary on Chapter 2.)
Savings bonds, unlike Treasuries, are not marketable; you cannot
110
Commentary on Chapter 4
sell them to another investor, and you'll forfeit three months of interest
if you redeem them in less than five years. Thus they are suitable
nos buhnd uo ueis dwnf e jo 'Xeme siead sleyi Auowaio snoibia e
newborn through Harvard. They come in denominations as low as
$25, making them ideal as gifts to grandchildren. For investors who
can confidently leave some cash untouched for years to come, infla-
tion-protected "l-bonds" recently offered an attractive yield of around
4%. To learn more, see www.savingsbonds.gov.
MovinG beyond uncle Sam
Mortgage securities. Pooled together from thousands of mort-
gages around the United States, these bonds are issued by agencies
like the Federal National Mortgage Association ("Fannie Mae") or the
Government National Mortgage Association ("Ginnie Mae"). However,
they are not backed by the U.S. Treasury, so they sell at higher yields to
reflect their greater risk. Mortgage bonds generally underperform when
interest rates fall and bomb when rates rise. (Over the long run, those
swings tend to even out and the higher average yields pay off.) Good
But if a broker ever tries to sell you an individual mortgage bond or
Annuities. These insurance-like investments enable you to defer cur-
rent taxes and capture a stream of income after you retire. Fixed annuities
offer a set rate of return; variable ones provide a fluctuating return. But
what the defensive investor really needs to defend against here are the
hard-selling insurance agents, stockbrokers, and financial planners who
peddle annuities at rapaciously high costs. In most cases, the high
expenses of owning an annuity-including "surrender charges" that gnaw
away at your early withdrawals-will overwhelm its advantages. The few
good annuities are bought, not sold; if an annuity produces fat commis-
sions for the seller, chances are it will produce meager results for the
buyer. Consider only those you can buy directly from providers with rock-
bottom costs like Ameritas, TIAA-CREF, and Vanguard.11
11 In general, variable annuities are not attractive for investors under the age
of 50 who expect to be in a high tax bracket during retirement or who have
Commentary on Chapter 4
11 t
Preferred stock. Preferred shares are a worst-of-both-worlds
investment. They are less secure than bonds, since they have only a
Kaui puv ldnyueq saob 1! ! siasse s,Auedwoo e uo wielp epuooas
offer less profit potential than common stocks do, since companies
est rates drop or their credit rating improves. Unlike the interest pay-
ments on most of its bonds, an issuing company cannot deduct
preferred dividend payments from its corporate tax bil. Ask yourself: If
this company is healthy enough to deserve my investment, why is it
paying a fat dividend on its preferred stock instead of issuing bonds
and getting a tax break? The likely answer is that the company is not
healthy, the market for its bonds is glutted, and you should approach
its preferred shares as you would approach an unrefrigerated dead
fish.
Common stock. A visit to the stock screener at http://screen
yahoo.com/stocks.html in early 2003 showed that 115 of the stocks in
the Standard & Poor's 500 index had dividend yields of 3.0% or
greater. No intelligent investor, no matter how starved for yield, would
ever buy a stock for its dividend income alone; the company and its
businesses must be solid, and its stock price must be reasonable.
But, thanks to the bear market that began in 20o0, some leading
stocks are now outyielding Treasury bonds. So even the most defen-
sive investor should realize that selectively adding stocks to an all-
bond or mostly-bond portfolio can increase its income yield-and raise
its potential return.1?
not already contributed the maximum to their existing 401(k) or IRA
accounts. Fixed annuities (with the notable exception of those from TiAA-
CREF) can change their “guaranteed" rates and smack you with nasty sur-
render fees. For thorough and objective analysis of annuities, see two
superb articles by Walter Updegrave: "Income for Life," Money, July, 2002,
pp. 89-96, and "Annuity Buyer's Guide" Money, November, 2002, Pp.
104-110.
12 For more on the role of dividends in a portfolio, see Chapter 19.
