### 1972. But we have retained a broad leeway between the 25% mini-

approaching) bankruptcy, its common stock becomes essentially worthless,
since U.S. bankruptcy law entitles bondholders to a much stronger legal
claim than shareholders. But if the company reorganizes successfully and
 e  s  o    o o s
firm, and the value of the bonds usually recovers once the company is able
to pay interest again. Thus the bonds of a troubled company can perform
almost as well as the common stock of a healthy company. In these special
situations, as Graham puts it, "no true distinction exists between bonds and
common stocks."
Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side
157
mum and the 75% maximum in common stocks, which we allow to
those investors who have strong convictions about either the dan-
ger or the attractiveness of the general market level. Some 20 years
ago it was possible to discuss in great detail a number of clear-cut
formulas for varying the percentage held in common stocks, with
confidence that these plans had practical utility. The times seem to
have passed such approaches by, and there would be little point in
trying to determine new levels for buying and selling out of the
market patterns since 1949. That is too short a period to furnish any
reliable guide to the future.*
Growth-Stock Approach
Every investor would like to select the stocks of companies that
  sa g d e a ae     g
stock may be defined as one that has done this in the past and
the intelligent investor should concentrate upon the selection of
growth stocks. Actually the matter is more complicated, as we shall
try to show.
It is a mere statistical chore to identify companies that have "out-
performed the averages" in the past. The investor can obtain a list of
50 or 100 such enterprises from his broker.t Why, then, should he
not merely pick out the 15 or 20 most likely looking issues of this
group and lo! he has a guaranteed-successful stock portfolio?
* Note very carefully what Graham is saying here. Writing in 1972, he con-
tends that the period since 1949-a stretch of more than 22 years-is to0
short a period from which to draw reliable conclusions! With his mastery of
mathematics, Graham never forgets that objective conclusions require very
long samples of large amounts of data. The charlatans who peddle "time-
samples than Graham would ever accept. (Graham often used 50-year peri-
ods to analyze past data.)
t Today, the enterprising investor can assemble such a list over the Internet
by visiting such websites as-www.morningstar.com (try the Stock Quickrank
tool), www.quicken.com/investments/stocks/search/full, and http://yahoo.
marketguide.com.
158
TheIntelligent Investor
There are two catches to this simple idea. The first is that com-
mon stocks with good records and apparently good prospects sell
at correspondingly
y high prices. The investor may be right in his
judgment of their prospects and still not fare particularly well,
merely because he has paid in full (and perhaps overpaid) for the
expected
 prosperity. The second is that his judgment as to the
future may prove wrong. Unusually rapid
growth cannot keep up
forever; when a company has already registered a brilliant expan-
sion, its very increase in size makes a repetition of its achievement
more difficult. At some point the growth curve flattens out, and in
many cases it turns downward.
It is obvious that if one confines himself to a few chosen
instances, based on hindsight, he could demonstrate that fortunes
can readily be either made or lost in the growth-stock field. How
can one judge fairly of the overall results obtainable here? We think
that reasonably sound conclusions can be drawn from a study of
the results achieved by the investment funds specializing in the
growth-stock approach. The authoritative manual entitled Invest-
ment Companies, published annually by Arthur Wiesenberger &
Company, members of the New York Stock Exchange, computes
the annual performance of some 120 such "growth funds" over a
period of years. Of these, 45 have records covering ten years or
more. The average overall gain for these companiesunweighted
for size of fund--works out at 108% for the decade 1961-1970,
compared with 105% for the S & P composite and 83% for the
DJIA.3 In the two years 1969 and 1970 the majority of the 126
'growth funds" did worse than either index. Similar results were
       s    o
       m
companies as compared with that in common stocks generally.*
* Over the 10 years ending December 31, 2002, funds investing in large
growth companies-today's equivalent of what Graham calis “growth
stock market by an average of 3.7 percentage points per year. However,
"large value" funds investing in more reasonably priced big companies also
 ad  e a a  e lo   d
per year). ls the problem merely that growth funds cannot reliably select
Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side
159
There is no reason at all for thinking that the average intelligent
investor, even with much devoted effort, can derive better results
over the years from the purchase of growth stocks than the invest-
 s s    a s 
B         
disposal than you do. Consequently we should advise against the
usual type of  growth-stock commitment for the enterprising
investor.* This is one in which the excellent prospects are fully rec-
ognized in the market and already reflected in a current price-
earnings ratio of, say, higher than 20. (For the defensive investor
we suggested an upper limit of purchase price at 25 times average
earnings of the past seven years. The two criteria would be about
equivalent in most cases.)t
stocks that will outperform the market in the future? Or is it'that the high
nies) exceed any extra return the managers can earn with their stock picks?
different investment styles can be, see www.callan.com/resource/periodic_
table/pertable.pdf.
* Graham makes this point to remind you that an "enterprising" investor is
not one who takes more risk than average or who buys "aggressive growth"
stocks; an enterprising investor is simply one who is willing to put in extra
time and effort in researching his or her portfolio.
+ Notice that Graham insists on calculating the price/earnings ratio based
you will overestimate a company's value based on a temporarily high burst
of profitability. Imagine that a company earned $3 per share over the past
12 months, but an average of only 50 cents per share over the previous six
years. Which number-the sudden $3 or the steady 50 cents-is more likely
to represent a sustainable trend? At 25 times the $3 it earned in the most
recent year, the stock would be priced at $75. But at 25 times the average
'usas Ag papia 'sbuuea eioi u! gs) sieas uasas ised aut jo sbuiuea
equals 85.7 cents per share in average annual earnings), the stock would
be priced at only $21.43. Which number you pick makes a big difference.
Finally, it's worth noting that the prevailing method on Wall Street today--
160
The Intelligent Investor
The striking thing about growth stocks as a class is their ten-
dency toward wide swings in market price. This is true of the
largest and longest-established companies-such as General Elec-
tric and International Business Machines--and even more so of
newer and smaller successful companies. They illustrate our thesis
that the main characteristic of the stock market since 1949 has been
the injection of a highly speculative element into the shares of com-
panies which have scored the most brilliant successes, and which
themselves would be entitled to a high investment rating. (Their
credit standing is of the best, and they pay the lowest interest rates
on their borrowings.) The investment caliber of such a company
 may not change over a long span of years, but the risk characteris-
tics of its stock will depend on what happens to it in the stock mar-
ket. The more enthusiastic the public grows about it, and the faster
its advance as compared with the actual.growth in its earnings, the
riskier a proposition it becomes.*
But is it not true, the reader may ask, that the really big fortunes
  o      s  
substantial commitment in the early years of a company in whose
future they had great confidence, and who held their original
        
value? The answer is "Yes." But the big fortunes from single-
company investments are almost always realized by persons who
anathema to Graham. How can you value a company based on earnings it
hasn't even generated yet? That's like setting house prices based on a
rumor that Cinderella will be building her new castle right around the corner.
* Recent examples hammer Graham's point home. On September 21,
2000, Intel Corp., the maker of computer chips, announced that it expected
its revenues to grow by up to 5% in the next quarter. At first blush, that
sounds great; most big companies would be delighted to increase their
sales by 5% in just three months. But in response, Intel's stock dropped
22%, a one-day loss of nearly $91 billion in total value. Why? Wall Street's
analysts had expected Intel's revenue to rise by up to 1o%o. Similarly, on
February 21, 2001, EMC Corp., a data-storage firm, announced that it
expected its revenues to grow by at least 25% in 2001 -but that a new cau-
tion among customers “may lead to longer selling cycles!" On that whiff of
hesitation, EMC's shares lost 12.8% of their value in a single day.
Dividend
Return
1970
2.3%
17
33
1961-1970
10 years
+121.1%
+102.1
+106.7
+ 97.4
+104.7
+ 83.0
1966-1970
 5 years
+23.2%
+20.3
+23.2
+13.8
+16.1
+. 2.9
TABLE 7-1 Average Results of "Growth Funds," 1961-1970a
- 7.5%
+ 3.5%
1 year
1970
241-
- 4.7
-14.2
8.7
+
u  u ,moa, ym spuny g
106 smaller growth funds--group A
 38 smaller growth funds -group B
Dow Jones Industrial Average
Standard & Poor's composite
17 large growth funds.
162
The Intelligent Investor
have a close relationship with the particular companythrough
employment, family connection, etc.—-which justifies them in plac-
ing a large part of their resources in one medium and holding on
to this commitment through all vicissitudes, despite numerous
temptations to sell out at apparently
high
1 prices along the way.
s        
be faced with the question of whether too large a portion of
his funds are in this one medium.* Each decline-however tempo-
rary it proves in the sequel—will accentuate his problem; and
internal and external pressures are likely to force him to take what
seems to be a goodly profit, but one far less than the ultimate
bonanza.
Three Recommended Fields for "Enterprising Investment"
. To obtain better than average investment results over a long pull
requires a policy of selection or operation possessing a twofold
 p ss t    ss  () 
soundness; and (2) it must be different from the policy followed by
most investors or speculators. Our experience and study leads us
ria. They differ rather widely from one another, and each may
require a different type of knowledge and temperament on the part
of those who assay it.
tors who help run the company and own huge blocks of stock. Executives
like Bill Gates of Microsoft or Warren Buffett of Berkshire Hathaway have
direct control over a company's destiny-and outside investors want to see
dence. But less-senior managers and rank-and-file workers cannot influence
not put more than a small percentage of their assets in their own employer's
stock. As for outside investors, no matter how well they think they know the
company, the same objection applies.
Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side
163
The Relatively Unpopular Large Company
If we assume that it is the habit of the market to overvalue com-
mon stocks which have been showing excellent growth or are
glamorous for some other reason, it is logical to expect that it will
undervalue—relatively, at least—companies that are out of favor
because of unsatisfactory developments of a temporary nature.
This may be set down as a fundamental law of the stock market,
and it suggests an investment approach that should prove both
conservative and promising.
        
concentrate on the larger companies that are going through a
period of unpopularity. While small companies may also be
  ss   p s s  pan
increase their earnings and share price, they entail the risk of a
definitive loss of profitability and also of protracted neglect by
the market in spite of better earnings. The large companies thus
have a double advantage over the others. First, they have the
resources in capital and brain power to carry them through adver-
sity and back to a satisfactory earnings base. Second, the market is
likely to respond with reasonable speed to any improvement
shown.
A remarkable demonstration of the soundness of this thesis is
found in studies of the price behavior of the unpopular issues in
the Dow Jones Industrial Average. In these it was assumed that an
investment was made each year in either the six or the ten issues
in the DJIA which were selling at the lowest multipliers of their
current or previous year's earnings. These could be called the
"cheapest" stocks in the list, and their cheapness was evidently the
reflection of relative unpopularity with investors or traders. It was
assumed further that these purchases were sold out at the end of
holding periods ranging from one to five years. The results of these
investments were then compared with the results shown in either
the DJIA as a whole or in the highest muitiplier (i.e., the most pop-
ular) group.
The detailed material we have available covers the results of
annual purchases assumed in each of the past 53 years. In the early
period, 1917-1933, this approach proved unprofitable. But since
1933 the method has shown highly successful results. In 34 tests
164
TheIntelligent Investor
TABLE 7-2
Average Annual Percentage Gain or Loss on Test
Issues, 1937-1969
10 Low-
10 High-
Multiplier
Multiplier
30 DJIA
Period
Issues
Issues
Stocks
1937-1942
- 2.2
-10.0
6.3
1943-1947
17.3
8.3
14.9
1948-1952
16.4
4.6
9.9
1953--1957
20.9
10.0
13.7
1958-1962
10.2
- 3.3
3.6
1963-1969 (8 years)
8.0
4.6
4.0
made by Drexel & Company (now Drexel Firestone)* of one-year
       
Worse than the DJIA in only three instances; the results were about
the same in six cases; and the cheap stocks clearly outperformed
the average in 25 years. The consistently better performance of the
low-multiplier stocks is shown (Table 7-2) by the average results
for successive five-year periods, when compared with those of the
DJIA and of the ten high-multipliers.
The Drexel computation shows further that an original invest-
ment of $10,000 made in the low-multiplier issues in 1936, and
switched each year in accordance with the principle, would have
-  s       
stocks would have ended with a value of only $25,300; while an
operation in all thirty stocks would have increased the original
fund to $44,000.t
The concept of buying "unpopular large companies" and its
* Drexel Firestone, a Philadelphia investment bank, merged in 1973 with
Burnham & Co. and later became Drexel Burnham Lambert, famous for its
junk-bond financing of the 1980s takeover boom.
+ This strategy of buying the cheapest stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average is now nicknamed the “Dogs of the Dow" approach. Information on
the "Dow 10" is available at www.djindexes.com/jsp/dow510Faq.jsp.
Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side
165
execution on a group basis, as described above, are both quite sim-
ple. But in considering individual companies a special factor of
opposite import must sometimes to be taken into account. Compa-
nies that are inherently speculative because of widely varying
earnings tend to sell both at a relatively high price and at a rela-
tively low multiplier in their good years, and conversely at low
 s s a      
are illustrated in Table 7-3, covering fluctuations of Chrysler Corp.
common. In these cases the market has sufficient skepticism as to
the continuation of the unusually high profits to value them con-
servatively, and conversely when earnings are low or nonexistent.
(Note that, by the arithmetic, if a company earns "next to nothing"
its shares must sell at a high multiplier of these minuscule profits.)
As it happens Chrysler has been quite exceptional in the DJIA
list of leading companies, and hence it did not greatly affect the the
low-multiplier calculations. It would be quite easy to avoid inclu-
sion of such anomalous issues in a low-multiplier list by requiring
also that the price be low in relation to past average earnings or by
some similar test.
While writing this revision we tested the results of the DJIA-
low-multiplier method applied to a group assumed to be bought at
TABLE 7-3
 Chrysler Common Prices and Earnings, 1952-1970
EarningsPer Share
High or Low Price
P/E Ratio
1952
$ 9.04
H98
10.8
1954
2.13
L 56
26.2
1955
11.49
H 101%
8.8
1956
2.29
L 52 (in 1957)
22.9
1957
13.75
H82
6.7
1958
(def.) 3.88
L 44a
1968
24.92b
H 294b
11.8
1970
def.
L 65b
a 1962 low was 37%.
 Adjusted for stock splits. def.: Net loss.
166
The Intelligent Investor
the end of 1968 and revalued on June 30, 1971. This time the figures
proved quite disappointing, showing a sharp loss for the low-
tions. This one bad instance should not vitiate conclusions based
adverse weight. Perhaps the aggressive investor should start with
the "low-multiplier" idea, but add other quantitative and qualita-
tive requirements thereto in making up his portfolio.
Purchase of Bargain Issues
We define a bargain issue as one which, on the basis of facts
established by a
 analysis, appears to be worth .considerably more
than it is selling for. The genus includes bonds and preferred stocks
selling well under par, as well as common stocks. To be as concrete
as possible, let us suggest that an issue is not a true "bargain"
unless the indicated value is at least 50% more than the price. What
kind of facts would warrant the conclusion that so great a discrep-
ancy exists? How do bargains come into existence, and how does
the investor profit from them?
          
detected. The first is by the method of appraisal. This relies largely
on estimating future earnings and then multiplying these by a fac-
tor appropriate to the particular issue. If the resultant value is suffi-
ciently above the market price--and if the investor has confidence
in the technique employed---he can tag the stock as a bargain. The
second test is the value of the business to a private owner. This
value also is often determined chiefly by expected future earn-
ings-in which case the result may be identical with the first. But in
the second test more attention is likely to be paid to the realizable
value of the assets, with particular emphasis on the net current
assets or working capital.
At low points in the general market a large proportion of com-
mon stocks are bargain issues, as measured by these standards. (A
typical example was General Motors when it sold at less than 30 in
1941, equivalent to only 5 for the 1971 shares. It had been earning
in excess of $4 and paying $3.50, or more, in dividends.) It is true
   s   p s  
poor, but a levelheaded appraisal of average future conditions
Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positioe Side
167
would indicate values far above ruling prices. Thus the wisdom of
voice of experience but also by application of plausible techniques
of value analysis.
The same vagaries of the market place that recurrently establish
a bargain condition in the general list account for the existence of
many individual bargains at almost all market levels. The market is
fond of making mountains out of molehills and exaggerating ordi-
nary vicissitudes into major setbacks.* Even a mere lack of interest
S a se n   e s  s 
Thus we have what appear to be two major sources of undervalua-
tion: (1) currently disappointing results and (2) protracted neglect
or unpopularity.
However, neither of these causes, if considered by itself alone,
can be relied on as a guide to successful common-stock investment.
How can we be sure that the currently disappointing results are
indeed going to be only temporary? True, we can supply excellent
examples of that happening. The steel stocks used to be famous
for  their cyclical
 quality, and the shrewd buyer could acquire
them at low prices when earnings were low and sell them out in
boom years at a fine profit. A spectacular example is supplied by
Chrysler Corporation, as shown by the data in Table 7-3.
If this were the standard behavior of stocks with fluctuating
earnings, then making profits in the stock market would be an easy
matter. Unfortunately, we could cite many examples of declines in
* Among the steepest of the mountains recently made out of molehills:
In May 1998, Pfizer Inc. and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
of heart attacks while having sex. Pfizer's stock immediately went flaccid,
losing 3.4% in a single day on heavy trading. But Pfizer's shares surged
ahead when research later showed that there was no cause for alarm; the
stock gained roughly a third over the next two years. In late 1997, shares of
Warner-Lambert Co. fell by 19% in a day when sales of its new diabetes
drug were temporarily halted in England; within six months, the stock had
nearly doubled. In late 2002, Carnival Corp., which operates cruise ships,
lost roughly 10% of its value after tourists came down with severe diarrhea
and vomiting-on ships run by other companies.
168
TheIntelligent Investor
earnings and price which were not followed automatically by a
handsome recovery of both. One such was Anaconda Wire and
Cable, which had large earnings up to 1956, with a high price of 85
in that year. The earnings then declined irregularly for six years;
the price fell to 23% in 1962, and the following year it was taken
over by its parent enterprise (Anaconda Corporation) at the equiv-
alent of only 33.
The many experiences of this type suggest that the investor
would need more than a mere falling off in both earnings and price
to give him a sound basis for purchase. He should require an indi-
cation of at least reasonable stability of earnings over the past
decade or more—i.e., no year of earnings deficit—plus sufficient
size and financial strength to meet possible setbacks in the future.
The ideal combination here is thus that of a large and prominent
company selling both well below its past average price and its past
average price/earnings multiplier. This would no doubt have
ruled out most of the profitable opportunities in companies such as
Chrysler, since their low-price years are generally accompanied by
high price/earnings ratios. But let us assure the reader now-and
no doubt we shall do it again-that there is a world of difference
seriously whether the Chrysler type of roller coaster is a suitable
medium for operations by our enterprising investor.
We have mentioned protracted neglect or unpopularity as a sec-
ond cause of price declines to unduly low levels. A current case of
this kind would appear to be National Presto Industries. In the bull
market of 1968 it sold at a high of 45, which was only 8 times the
$5.61 earnings for that year. The per-share profits increased in both
1969 and 1970, but the price declined to only 21 in 1970. This was
less than 4 times the (record) earnings in that year and less than its
net-current-asset value. In March 1972 it was selling at 34, still only
5% times the last reported earnings, and at about its enlarged net-
current-asset value.
Another example of this type is provided currently by Standard
Oil of California, a concern of major importance. In early 1972 it
was selling at about the same price as 13 years before, say 56. Its
earnings had been remarkably steady, with relatively small growth
but with only one small decline over the entire period. Its book
value was about equal to the market price. With this conservatively
Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side
169
favorable 1958-71 record the company has never shown an aver-
age annual price as high as 15 times its current earnings. In early
1972 the price/earnings ratio was only about 10.
A third cause for an unduly low price for a common stock may
be the market's failure to recognize its true earnings picture. Our
classic example here is Northern Pacific Railway which in 1946-47
declined from 36 to 13%. The true earnings 0f the road in 1947 were
close to $10 per share. The price of the stock was held down in
great part by its $1 dividend. It was neglected also because much of
to railroads.
The type of bargain issue that can be most readily identified is a
common stock that sells for less than the company's net working
capital alone, after deducting all prior obligations.* This would
mean that the buyer would pay nothing at all for the fixed assets-
一
buildings, machinery, etc., or any good-will items that might exist.
Very few companies turn out to have an ultimate value less than
the working capital alone, although scattered instances may be
found. The surprising thing, rather, is that there have been so many
enterprises obtainable which have been valued in the market on
this bargain basis. A compilation made in 1957, when the market's
level was by no means low, disclosed about 150 of such common
stocks. In Table 7-4 we summarize the result of buying, on Decem-
ber 31, 1957, one share of each of the 85 companies in that list for
which data appeared in Standard & Poor's Monthly Stock Guide,
and holding them for two years.
By something of a coincidence, each of the groups advanced in
the two years to somewhere in the neighborhood of the aggregate
period was 75%, against 50% for Standard & Poor's 425 industrials.
What is more remarkable is that none of the issues showed signifi-
cant losses, seven held about even, and 78 showed appreciable
gains.
Our experience with this type of investment selection—on a
* By "net working capital," Graham means a company's current assets (such
as cash, marketable securities, and inventories) minus its total liabilities
(including preferred stock and long-term debt).
170
The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 7-4  Profit Experience of Undervalued Stocks,
1957-1959
Aggregate Net
Aggregate
Aggregate
Location of
, Number of
Current Assets
Price
Price
Market
Companies
Per Share
Dec. 1957
Dec.1959
New York S.E.
35
$ 748
$ 419
$ 838
American S.E.
25
495
289
492
Midwest S.E.
5
163
87
141
Over the counter
20
425
288
433
Total
85
$1,831
$1,083
$1,904
diversified basiswas uniformly good for many years prior to
