### 1957. It can probably be affirmed without hesitation that it consti-

tutes a safe and profitable method of determining and taking
advantage of undervalued situations. However, during the general
market advance after 1957 the number of such opportunities
became extremely limited, and many of those available were show-
ing small operating profits or even losses. The market decline of
-m-, s o do   p -
stocks. We discuss this group in Chapter 15, on stock selection for
the enterprising investor.
BARGAIN-IsSUE PATTERN IN SECONDARY COMPANIES. We have
defined a secondary company as one that is not a leader in a fairly
important industry. Thus it is usually one of the smaller concerns
in its field, but it may equally well be the chief unit in an unimpor-
tant line. By way of exception, any company that has established
itself as a growth stock is not ordinarily considered "secondary.'
In the great bull market of the 1920s relatively little distinction
was drawn between industry leaders and other listed issues, pro-
vided the latter were of respectable size. The public felt that a
middle-sized company was strong enough to weather storms and
that it had a better chance for really spectacular expansion than one
that was already
y of major dimensions. The depression years
1931-32, however, had a particularly devastating
g impact on the
companies below the first rank either in size or in inherent stability.
As a result of that experience investors have since developed a pro-
Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side
171
nounced preference for industry leaders and a corresponding lack
of interest most of the time in the ordinary company of secondary
importance. This has meant that the latter group have usually sold
at much lower prices in relation to earnings and assets than have
the former. It has meant further that in many instances the price
has fallen so low as to establish the issue in the bargain class.
When investors rejected the stocks of secondary companies,
even though these sold at relatively low prices, they were express-
ing a belief or fear that such companies faced a dismal future. In
fact, at least subconsciously, they calculated that any price was to0
high for them because they were heading for extinction-just as in
 o  s ,s ,    d  a
Was too high for them because their future possibilities were limit-
less. Both of these views were exaggerations and were productive
of serious investment errors. Actually, the typical middle-sized
listed company is a large one when compared with the average pri-
vately owned business. There is no sound reason why such compa-
nies should not continue indefinitely in operation, undergoing the
vicissitudes characteristic of our economy but earning on the
whole a fair return on their invested capital.
This brief review indicates that the stock market's attitude
toward secondary companies tends to be unrealistic and conse-
quently to create in normal times innumerable instances of major
undervaluation. As it happens, the World War II period and the
postwar boom were more beneficial to the smaller concerns than to
the larger ones, because then the normal competition for sales was
suspended and the former could expand sales and profit margins
more spectacularly. Thus by 1946 the market's pattern had com-
pletely reversed itself from that before the war. Whereas the lead-
ing stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average had advanced only
40% from the end of 1938 to the 1946 high, Standard & Poor's index
of low-priced stocks had shot up no less than 280% in the same
period.  Speculators and many
self-styled  investors---with   the
proverbial short memories of 1
people in the stock market—were
eager to buy both old and new issues of unimportant companies at
inflated levels. Thus the pendulum had swung clear to the oppo-
   ss s  s a   
supplied by far the largest proportion of bargain opportunities was
now presenting the greatest number of examples of overenthusi-
172
The Intelligent Investor
asm and overvaluation. In a different way this phenomenon was
new offerings-of the shares of small companies of less than second-
ary character, and on nearly all companies in certain favored fields
ers.*
As was to be expected the ensuing market declines fell most
heavily on these overvaluations. In some cases the pendulum
swing may have gone as far as definite undervaluation.
If most secondary issues tend normally to be undervalued, what
reason has the investor to believe that he can profit from such a sit-
uation? For if it persists indefinitely, will he not always be in the
same market position as when he bought the issue? The answer
here is somewhat complicated. Substantial profits from the pur-
chase of secondary companies at bargain prices arise in a variety of
Ways. First, the dividend return is relatively high. Second, the rein-
vested earnings are substantial in relation to the price paid and will
ultimately affect the price. In a five- to seven-year period these
advantages can bulk quite large in a well-selected list. Third, a bull
market is ordinarily
 most generous to low-priced issues; thus it
tends to raise the typical bargain issue to at least a reasonable level.
Fourth, even during relatively featureless market periods a contin-
uous process of price adjustment goes on, under which secondary
issues that were undervalued may rise at least to the normal level
for their type of security. Fifth, the specific factors that in many
* From 1975 through 1983, small ("secondary") stocks outperformed large
investing public eagerly embraced small stocks, mutual fund companies
rolled out hundreds of new funds specializing in them, and small stocks
over the next decade. The cycle recurred in 1999, when small stocks beat
big stocks by nearly nine percentage points, inspiring investment bankers to
sell hundreds of hot little high-tech stocks to the public for the first time.
buzzwords were ".com" "optical," "wireless," and even prefixes like "e-" and
quofue uede buueal 'smes zznq oiu! uni shemle spjomzznq bujsaaul :-l,
who believes in them.
Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side
173
 q A s p pn s e  p so
rected by the advent of new conditions, or the adoption of new
policies, or by a change in management.
An important new factor in recent years has been the acquisition
of smaller companies by larger ones, usually as part of a diversifi-
cation program. In these cases the consideration paid has. almost
always been relatively generous, and much in excess of the bargain
levels existing not long before.
           g
bargain issues extended to bonds and preferred stocks that sold at
large discounts from the amount of their claim. Currently we have
a different situation in which even well-secured issues sell at large
discounts if carrying coupon rates of, say, 4%% or less. Example:
American Telephone & Telegraph 2%s, due 1986, sold as low as 51
in 1970; Deere & Co. 4%s, due 1983, sold as low as 62. These may
well turn out to have been bargain opportunities before very
long-if ruling interest rates should decline substantially. For a
bargain bond issue in the more traditional sense perhaps we shall
have to turn once more to the first-mortgage bonds of railroads
now in financial difficulties, which sell in the 20s or 30s. Such situa-
tions are not for the inexpert investor; lacking a real sense of values
in this area, he may burn his fingers. But there is an underlying ten-
dency for market decline in this field to be overdone; consequently
the group as a whole offers an especially rewarding invitation to
careful and courageous analysis. In the decade ending in 1948 the
billion-dollar group of defaulted railroad bonds presented numer-
the 1970s.*
* Defaulted railroad bonds do not offer significant opportunities today. How-
ever, as already noted, distressed and defaulited junk bonds, as well as con-
vertible bonds issued by high-tech companies, may offer real value in the
wake of the 2000-2002 market crash. But diversification in this area is
essential--and impractical without at least $10o,oo0 to dedicate to dis-
tressed securities alone. Unless you are a millionaire several times over, .this
kind of diversification is not an option.
174
The Intelligent Investor
Special Situations, or "Workouts"
Not so long ago this was a field which could almost guarantee
an attractive rate of return to those who knew their way around in
it; and this was true under almost any sort of general market situa-
tion. It was not actually forbidden territory to members of the gen-
eral public.Some who had a flair for this sort of thing coud learn
the ropes and become pretty
capable
e practitioners without the
necessity of long academic study or apprenticeship. Others have
been keen enough to recognize the underlying soundness of this
approach and to attach themselves to bright young men who
handled fuinds devoted chiefly to these "special situations." But
in recent years, for reasons we shall develop later, the field of "arbi-
trages and workouts" became riskier and less profitable. It may
be that in years to come conditions in this field will become more
propitious. In any case it is worthwhile outlining the general
nature and origin of these operations, with one or two illustrative
examples.
The typical "special situation" has grown out of the increasing
number of acquisitions of smaller firms by large ones, as the gospel
of diversification of products has been adopted by more and more
prise to acquire an existing company in the field it wishes to enter
rather than to start a new venture from scratch. In order to make
such acquisition possible, and to obtain acceptance of the deal by
the required large majority of shareholders of the smaller company.
it is almost always necessary to offer a price considerably above
the current level. Such corporate moves have been producing inter-
esting profit-making opportunities for those who have made a
e Aa p n! po ar  'i s go ps
experience.
A great deal of money was made by shrewd investors not so
many years ago through t
the purchase of bonds of railroads in
bankruptcy-bonds which they knew would be worth much more
than their cost when the railroads were finally reorganized. After
promulgation of the plans of reorganization a "when issued" mar-
ket for the new securities appeared. These could almost always be
sold for considerably more than the cost of the old issues which
were to be exchanged therefor. There were risks of nonconsumma-
Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side
175
tion of the plans or of unexpected delays, but on the whole such
There were similar opportunities growing out of the breakup of
public-utility holding companies pursuant to 1935 legislation.
Nearly all these enterprises proved to be worth considerably more
when changed from holding companies to a group of separate
operating companies.
The underlying factor here is the tendency of the security mar-
kets to undervalue issues that are involved in any sort of compli-
cated legal proceedings. An old Wall Street motto has been: "Never
buy into a lawsuit." This may be sound advice to the speculator
seeking quick action on his holdings. But the adoption of this atti-
tude by the general public is bound to create bargain opportunities
in the securities affected by it, since the prejudice against them
 holds their prices down to unduly low levels.*
The exploitation of special .situations is a technical branch of
investment which requires a somewhat unusual mentality and
    s    
investors are likely to engage in it, and this book is not the appro-
priate medium for expounding its complications.
Broader Implications of Our Rules for Investment
Investment policy, as it has been developed here, depends in the
first place on a choice by the investor of either the defensive (pas-
sive) or aggressive (enterprising) role. The aggressive investor
must have a considerable knowledge of security valuesenough,
in fact, to warrant viewing his security operations as equivalent to
a business enterprise. There is no room in this philosophy for a
* A classic recent example is Philip Morris, whose stock lost 23% in two
days after a Florida court authorized jurors to consider punitive damages of
-bo jeut panwpe Auy pey yoym-Aueduoo au ssube uog oo oi dn
arettes may cause cancer. Within a year, Philip Morris's stock had doubled-
only. to fall back after a later multibillion-dollar judgment in llinois. Several
other stocks have been virtually destroyed by liability lawsuits, including
Johns Manville, W. R. Grace, and USG Corp. Thus, "never buy into a law-
suit" remains a valid rule for all but the most intrepid investors to live by.
176
The Intelligent Investor
middle ground, or a series of gradations, between the passive and
aggressive status. Many, perhaps most, investors seek to place
achievement.
As an investor you cannot soundly become "half a business-
man," expecting thereby to achieve half the normal rate of business
profits on your funds.
It follows from this reasoning that the majority of security own-
ers should elect the defensive classification. They do not have the
time, or the determination, or the mental equipment to embark
upon investing as a quasi-business. They should therefore be satis-
fied with the excellent return now obtainable from a defensive
portfolio (and with even less), and they should stoutly resist the
recurrent temptation to increase this return by deviating into other
paths.
The enterprising investor may properly embark upon any secu-
rity operation for which his training and judgment are adequate
and which appears sufficiently promising when measured by estab-
lished business standards.
In our recommendations and caveats for this group of investors
we have attempted to apply such business standards. In those for
the defensive investor we have been guided largely
 by the three
requirements of underlying safety, simplicity of choice, and prom-
ise of satisfactory results, in terms of psychology as well as arith-
metic. The use of these criteria has led us to exclude from the field
of recommended investment a number of security classes that are
normally regarded as suitable for various kinds of investors. These
prohibitions were listed in our first chapter on p. 30.
Let us consider a little more fully than before what is implied in
these exclusions. We have advised against the purchase at "full
prices" of three important categories of securities: (1) foreign
bonds, (2) ordinary preferred stocks, and (3) secondary common
stocks, including. of course, original offerings of such issues. By
d  sr e d   sd   d n,
stocks, and prices that represent about the fair business value of
the enterprise in the case of common stocks. The greater number
of defensive investors are to avoid these categories regardless of
price; the enterprising investor is to buy them only when obtain-
Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side
177
able at bargain priceswhich we define as prices not more than
two-thirds of the appraisal value of the securities.
What would happen if all investors were guided by our advice
in these matters? That question was considered in regard to for-
eign bonds, on p. 138, and we have nothing to add at this point.
Investment-grade preferred stocks would be bought solely by cor-
porations, such as insurance companies, which would benefit from
the special income-tax status of stock issues owned by them.
The most troublesome consequence of our policy of exclusion is
in the field of secondary common stocks. If the majority of
investors, being in the defensive class, are not to buy
them at all,
the field of possible buyers becomes seriously restricted. Further-
more, if aggressive investors are to buy them only at bargain levels,
P   s  s  p  e ss  
value, except to the extent that they were purchased unintelli-
gently.
This may sound severe and even vaguely unethical. Yet in truth
We are merely recognizing what has actually happened in this area
for the greater part of the past 40 years. Secondary issues, for the
most part, do fluctuate about a central level which is well below
their fair value. They reach and even surpass that value at times;
but this occurs in the upper reaches of bull markets, when the les-
paying the prevailing prices for common stocks.
Thus we are suggesting only that the aggressive investor recog-
nize the facts of life as it is lived by secondary issues and that they
accept the central market levels that are normal for that class as
their guide in fixing their own levels for purchase.
There is a paradox here, nevertheless. The average well-selected
secondary company may be fully as promising as the average
industrial leader. What the smaller concern lacks in inherent stabil-
ity it may readily make up in superior possibilities of growth. Con-
sequently
 may 2
appear  illogical  to many
I readers to term
1
"unintelligent" the purchase of such secondary issues at their full
"enterprise value." We think that the strongest logic is that of expe-
rience. Financial history says clearly that the investor may expect
satisfactory results, on the average; from secondary common
stocks only if he buys them for less than their value to a private
owner, that is, on a bargain basis.
178
TheIntelligent Investor
The last sentence indicates that this principle relates to the ordi-
nary outside investor. Anyone who can control a secondary com-
pany, or who is part of a cohesive group with such control, is fully
justified in buying the shares on the same basis as if he were invest-
ing in a "close corporation'" or other private business. The distinc-
tion between the position, and consequent investment policy, of
insiders and of outsiders becomes more important as the enterprise
itself becomes less important. It is a basic characteristic of a primary
or leading company that a single detached share is ordinarily
worth as much as a share in a controlling block. In secondary com-
panies the average market value of a detached share is substantially
less than its worth to a controlling owner. Because of this fact, the
matter of shareholder-management relations and of those between
inside and outside shareholders tends to be much more important
and controversial in the case of secondary than in that of primary
companies.
At the end of Chapter 5 we commented on the difficulty of mak-
ing any hard and fast distinction between primary and secondary
companies. The many common stocks in the boundary area may
properly exhibit an intermediate price behavior. It would not be
illogical for an investor to buy such an issue at a small discount
from its indicated or appraisal value, on the theory that it is only a
small distance away from a primary classification and that it may
acquire such a rating unqualifiedly in the not too distant future.
Thus the distinction between primary and secondary issues
need not be made too precise; for, if it were, then a small difference
in quality must produce a large differential in justified purchase
price. In saying this we are admitting a middle ground in the clas-
sification of common stocks, although we counseled against such a
middle ground in the classification of investors. Our reason for this
apparent inconsistency is as follows: No great harm comes from
some uncertainty of viewpoint regarding a single security, because
such cases are exceptional and not a great deal is at stake in the
matter. But the investor's choice as between the defensive or the
aggressive status is of major consequence to him, and he should
not allow himself to be confused or compromised in this basic deci-
sion.
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 7
to make a great fortune; and when you have got it, it requires
ten times as much wit to keep it.
-Nathan Mayer Rothschild
TiMING Is NOtHING
In an ideal world, the intelligent investor would hold stocks only when
they are cheap and sel them when they become overpriced, then
duck into the bunker of bonds and cash until stocks again become
cheap enough to buy. From 1966 through late 2001, one study
claimed, $1 held continuously in stocks would have grown to $11.71.
But if you had gotten out of stocks right before the five worst days of
each year, your original $1 would have grown to $987.12.1
hand. How, exactly, would you (or anyone) figure out which days will
be the worst days-before they arrive? On January 7, 1973, the New
York Times featured an interview with one of the nation's top financial
forecasters, who urged investors to buy stocks without hesitation: "lt's
eul mou ueo no se ysng Fipaenbun se aq ueo nos jeu ae Aaa
1 "The Truth About Timing" Barron's, November 5, 2001, p. 20. The headline
of this article is a useful reminder of an enduring principle for the intelligent in-
vestor. Whenever you see the word "truth" in an article about investing, brace
yourself; many of the quotes that follow are likely to be lies. (For one thing, an
investor who bought stocks in 1966 and held them through late 2001 would
have ended up with at least $40, not $11.71; the study cited in Barron's ap-
pears to have ignored the reinvestment of dividends.)
179
180
Commentary on Chapter 7
has ever been so unqualifiedly wrong as the future Federal Reserve
chairman was that day: 1973 and 1974 turned out to be the worst
years for economic growth and the stock market since the Great
Depression.?
Can professionals time the market any better than Alan Green-
span? “1 see no reason not to think the majority of the decline is
behind us," declared Kate Leary Lee, president of the market-timing
firm of R. M. Leary & Co., on December 3, 2001. "This is when you
want to be in the market" she added, predicting that stocks “look
good" for the first quarter of 2002.3 Over the next three months,
stocks earned a measly 0.28% return, underperforming cash by 1.5
percentage points.
Leary is not alone. A study by two finance professors at Duke Univer-
sity found that if you had followed the recommendations of the best 1 0%
of all market-timing newsletters, you would have earned a 12.6% annual-
ized return from 1991 through 1995. But if you had ignored them and
kept your money in a stock index fund, you would have earned 16.4%.4
As the Danish philosopher Soren Kierkegaard noted, life can only
be understood backwards-but it must be lived forwards. Looking
back, you can always see exactly when you should have bought and
in real time, just when to get in and out. In the financial markets, hind-
sight is forever 20/20, but foresight is legally blind. And thus, for most
investors, market timing is a practical and emotional impossibility.5
2 The New York Times, January 7, 1973, special “Economic Survey" section,
pp. 2, 19, 44.
3 Press release, "lt's a good time to be in the market, says R. M. Leary &
Company" December 3, 2001.
4 You would also have saved thousands of dollars in annual subscription
fees (which have not been deducted from the calculations of these newslet-
ters' returns). And brokerage costs and short-term capital gains taxes are
usually much higher for market timers than for buy-and-hold investors. For
the Duke study, see John R. Graham and Campbell R. Harvey, "Grading the
Performance of Market-Timing Newsletters" Financial Analysts Journal,
November/December, 1997, pp. 54-66, also available at www.duke.edu/
~charvey/research.htm.
5 For more on sensible alternatives to market timing-rebaiancing and dollar-
cost averaging-see Chapters 5 and 8.
Commentary on Chapter 7
181
WhaT Goes up
Like spacecraft that pick up speed as they rise into the Earth's strato-
sphere, growth stocks often seem to defy gravity. Let's look at the tra-
jectories of three of the hottest growth stocks of the 1990s: General
Electric, Home Depot, and Sun Microsystems. (See Figure 7-1.)
In every year from 1995 through 1999, each grew bigger and more
profitable. Revenues doubled at Sun and more than doubled at Home
Depot. According to Value Line, GE's revenues grew 29%o; its earnings
rose 65%. At Home Depot and Sun, earnings per share roughly tripled.
But something else was happening-and it wouldn't have surprised
nies, investors always end up sorry. As Figure 7-2 shows:
A great company is not a great investment if you pay too much for
the stock.
The more a stock has gone up, the more it seems likely to keep going
up. But that instinctive belief is flatly contradicted by a fundamental law
billion company can double its sales fairly easily; but where can a $50-
billion company turn to find another $50 billion in business?
Growth stocks are worth buying when their prices are reasonable,
but when their price/earnings ratios go much above 25 or 30 the odds
get ugly:
Journalist Carol Loomis found that, from 1960 through 1999, only
eight of the largest 150 companies on the Fortune 500 list man-
for two decades.
Looking at five decades of data, the research firm of Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. showed that only 10% of large U.S. companies
had increased their earnings by 2o% for at least five consecutive
years; only 3% had grown by 20% for at least 10 years straight;
and not a single one had done it for 15 years in a row.?
6 Carol J. Loomis, “The 15% Delusion, Fortune, February 5, 2001, pp.
102-108.
7 See Jason Zweig, "A Matter of Expectations, Money, January, 2001, pp.
49-50.
261.7
d r a si o saad rra re r uau s isrn ies r sa pe sn so
1999
55,645
13
53.2
47.9
38,434
1.00
68.8
73.7
11,726
0.36
1998
51,546
0.93
40.7
36.4
30,219
0.71
108.3
61.8
162'6
0.29
114.7
34.5
1997
48,952
0.83
50.6
29.9
24,156
0.52
76.8
37.5
8,598
0.24
55.2
17.9
1996
46,119
0.73
40.0
22.8
19,536
0.43
5
27.6
7,095
0.17
12.6
17.7
1995
43,013
0.65
44.5
18.4
15,470
0.34
2
32.3
5,902
0.11
157.0
20.3
divided by reported earnings for previous four quarters.
Year-end price/earnings ratio
Year-end price/earnings ratio
Year-end price/earnings ratio
Yearly stock return (%)
Yearly stock return (%)
Yearly stock return (%)
Earnings per share ($)
Revenues ($ millions)
Earnings per share ($)
Revenues ($ millions)
Earnings per share ($)
Revenues ($ millions)
FIGURE 7-1 Up, Up, and Away
Sources: Bloomberg, Value Line
 Sun Microsystems
General Electric
Home Depot
Commentary on Chapter 7
183
FIGURE 7-2 Look Out Below
Stock price
Stock price
P/E ratio
P/E ratio
12/31/99
12/31/02
12/31/99
March 2003
General Electric
$51.58
$24.35
48.1
15.7
Home Depot
$68.75
$23.96
97.4
14.3
Sun Microsystems
$38.72
$3.11
123.3
n/a
n/a: Not applicable; Sun had net loss in 2002.
Sources: www.morningstar.com, yahoo.marketguide.com
An academic study of thousands of U.S. stocks from 1951
grew by an average of 9.7% annually. But for the biggest 20% of
:'g'e isn! jo ebelaae jenuue ue Aq maib sbuuea 'saluedwoo
Even many corporate leaders fail to understand these odds (see side-
bar on p. 184). The intelligent investor, however, gets interested in big
growth stocks not when they are at their most popular-but when some-
thing goes wrong. In July 2002, Johnson & Johnson announced that
Federal regulators were investigating accusations of false record keep-
ing at one of its drug factories, and the stock lost 16%o in a single day.
That took J & J's share price down from 24 times the previous 12 months'
earnings to just 20 times. At that lower level, Johnson & Johnson might
example of what Graham calls "the relatively unpopular large company."
This kind of temporary unpopularity can create lasting wealth by enabling
you to buy a great company at a good price.
8 Louis K. C. Chan, Jason Karceski, and Josef Lakonishok, "The Level and
Persistence of Growth Rates," National Bureau of Economic Research,
w8282.
° Almost exactly 20 years earlier, in October 1982, Johnson & Johnson's stock
lost 17.5% of its value in a week when several people died after ingesting
Johnson responded by pioneering the use of tamper-proof packaging, and the
stock went on to be one of the great investments of the 1980s.
184
Commentary on Chapter 7
HiGH POTeNtiaL
For HYPe pOteNtiaL
Investors aren't the only people who fall prey to the delusion that
hyper-growth can go on forever. In February 2oo0, chief execu-
tive John Roth of Nortel Networks was asked how much bigger
his giant fiber-optics company could get. "The industry is grow-
ing 14% to 15% a year" Roth replied, "and we're going to grow
six points faster than that. For a company our size, that's pretty
heady stuff:" Nortel's stock, up nearly 51%o annually over the pre-
vious six years, was then trading at 87 times what Wall Street
was guessing it might earn in 2ooo. Was the stock overpriced?
"It's getting up there,' shrugged Roth, "but there's still plenty of 
room to grow our valuation as we execute on the wireless strat-
egy" (After all, he added, Cisco Systems was trading at 121
times its projected earnings!)1
As for Cisco, in November 2ooo, its chief executive, John
Chambers, insisted that his company could keep growing at
least 50% annually. "Logic," he declared, "would indicate this is
a breakaway" Cisco's stock had come way down-it was then
trading at a mere 98 times its earnings over the previous year-
and Chambers urged investors to buy. "So who you going to bet
on?" he asked. "Now may be the opportunity."2
Instead, these growth companies shrank-and their over-
priced stocks shriveled. Nortel's revenues fell by 37% in 2001,
and the company lost more than $26 billion that year. Cisco's
revenues did rise by 18% in 2001, but the company ended up
with a net loss of more than $1 billion. Nortel's stock, at
$113.50 when Roth spoke, finished 2002 at $1.65. Cisco's
shares, at $52 when Chambers called his company a "break-
away" crumbled to $13.
Both  companies have since become more  circumspect
about forecasting the future.
1 Lisa Gibbs, "Optic Uptick" Money, April, 2000, pp. 54-55.
2 Brooke Southall, “Cisco's Endgame Strategy" InvestmentNews, November
30, 2000, pp. 1, 23.
Commentary on Chapter 7
185
Should you put all your eGGs
IN one basket?
"Put all your eggs into one basket and then watch that basket" pro-
claimed Andrew Carnegie a century ago. "Do not scatter your shot.
. . . The great successes of life are made by concentration!" As Gra-
ham points out, "the really big fortunes from common stocks" have
been made by people who packed all their money into one investment
they knew supremely well.
Nearly all the richest people in America trace their wealth to a con-
centrated investment in a single industry or even a single company
(think Bill Gates and Microsoft, Sam Walton and Wal-Mart, or the
Rockefellers and Standard Oil). The Forbes 4oo list of the richest
Americans, for example, has been dominated by undiversified fortunes
ever since it was first compiled in 1982.
However, almost no small fortunes have been made this way-and
-bau aibaue peum Xem siyi iday uaaq aaey saunuoy big Xuew 1ou
lected to mention is that concentration also makes most of the great
failures of life. Look again at the Forbes "Rich List" Back in 1982, the
 o    t g  o o  
          
needed to earn only a 4.5% average annual return on his wealth-
during a period when even bank accounts yielded far more than that
and the stock market gained an annual average of 13.2%.
So how many of the Forbes. 400 fortunes from 1982 remained on
  o e p    s   e
16%-were still on the list in 2002. By keeping all their eggs in the one
basket that had gotten them onto the list in the first place-once-
booming industries like oil and gas, or computer hardware, or basic
manufacturing-all the other original members fell away. When hard
times hit, none of these people-despite all the huge advantages that
great wealth can bring-were properly prepared. They could only
stand by and wince at the sickening crunch as. the constantly chang-
ing economy crushed their only basket and all their eggs.10
10 For the observation that it is amazingly difficult to remain on the Forbes
400, I am indebted to investment manager Kenneth Fisher (himself a Forbes
columnist).
186
Commentary on Chapter 7
The barGaIn bIN
You might think that in our endlessly networked world, it wouid be a
cinch to build and buy a list of stocks that meet Graham's criteria for
op oi ay lhs llnos 'diay 1 s! aaul an yhnouit '(a1 'd) suiag
much of the work by hand.
Grab a copy of today's Wall Street Journal, turn to the "Money &
Investing" section, and take a look at the NYSE and NASDAQ Score-
pass Graham's net-working-capital tests. (Online, try http://quote.
morningstar.com/highlow.htm!?msection=HighLow.)
To see whether a stock is selling for less than the value of net work-
ing capital (what Graham's followers call “net nets"), download or
request the most recent quarterly or annual report from the company's
website or from the EDGAR database at www.sec.gov. From the
company's current assets, subtract its total liabilities, including any
preferred stock and long-term debt. (Or consult your local public
library's copy of the Value Line Investment Survey, saving yourself a
costly annual subscription. Each issue carries a list of "Bargain Base-
ment Stocks" that come close to Graham's definition.) Most of these
stocks lately have been in bombed-out areas like high-tech and
telecommunications.
As of October 31, 2002, for.instance, Comverse Technology had
$2.4 billion in current assets and $1.0 billion in total liabilities, giving it
$1.4 billion in net working capital. With fewer than 190 million shares
of stock, and a stock price under $8 per share, Comverse had a total
market capitalization of just under $1.4 billion. With the stock priced
at no more than the value of Comverse's cash and inventories, the
company's ongoing business was essentially selling for nothing. As
Graham knew, you can still lose money on a stock like Comverse--
which is why you should buy them only if you can find a couple dozen
at a time and hold them patiently. But on the very rare occasions when
Mr. Market generates that many true bargains, you're all but certain to
make money.
What's your foreign policy?
Investing in foreign stocks may not be mandatory for the intelligent
investor, but it is definitely advisable. Why? Let's try a little thought
Commentary on Chapter 7
187
experiment. It's the end of 1989, and you're Japanese. Here are the
facts:
Over the past 10 years, your stock market has gained an annual
average of 21.2%o, well ahead of the 17.5% annual gains in the
United States.
Japanese companies are buying up everything in the United
States from the Pebble Beach golf course to Rockefeller Center;
meanwhile, American firms like Drexel Burnham Lambert, Finan-
cial Corp. of America, and Texaco are going bankrupt.
The U.S. high-tech industry is dying. Japan's is booming.
In 1989, in the land of the rising sun, you can only conclude that
investing outside of Japan is the dumbest idea since sushi vending
machines. Naturally, you put all your money in Japanese stocks.
The result? Over the next decade, you lose roughly two.thirds of
your money.
The lesson? It's not that you should never invest in foreign markets
like Japan; it's that the Japanese should never have kept all their
money at home. And neither should you. lf you live in the United
States, work in the United States, and get paid in U.S. dollars, you are
already making a multilayered bet on the U.S. economy. To be prudent,
you should put some of your investment portfolio elsewhere-simply
because no one, anywhere, can ever know what the future will bring at
home. or abroad. Putting up to a third of your stock money in mutual
funds that hold foreign stocks (including those in emerging markets)
helps insure against the risk that our own backyard may not always be
the best place in the world to invest.
