### 1970. Similarly, Xerox—an even more impressive earnings gainer

in recent decades--fell from 171 to 87 in 1962-63, and from 116 to
e p     ssn s  '  9o
the future long-term growth of IBM or Xerox; they reflected instead
a lack of confidence in the premium valuation that the stock mar-
ket itself had placed on these excellent prospects.
The previous discussion leads us to a conclusion of practical
importance to the conservative investor in common stocks. If he is
to pay some special attention to the selection of his portfolio, it
might be best for him to concentrate on issues selling at a reason-
ably close approximation to their tangible-asset value--say, at not
s   sne   aaoqe p-a  a
  pi se p q  m  r o 'a
* Graham's use of the word "paradox" is probably an allusion to a classic
article by David Durand, “Growth Stocks and the Petersburg Paradox," The
Journal of Finance, vol. Xll, no. 3, September, 1957, pp. 348-363, which
compares investing in high-priced growth stocks to betting on a series of
coin flips in which the payoff escalates with each flip of the coin. Durand
points out that if a growth stock could continue to grow at a high rate for
an indefinite period of time, an investor should (in theory) be willing to pay
price of infinity dollars per share? Because the higher the assumed future
growth rate, and the longer the time period over which it is expected, the
wider the margin for error grows, and the higher the cost of even a tiny mis-
calculation becomes. Graham discusses this problem further in Appendix 4
(p.570).
200
The Intelligent Investor
company's balance sheet, and as having a justification or support
independent of the fluctuating market prices. The premium over
book value that may be involved can be considered as a kind of
extra fee paid for the advantage of stock-exchange listing and the
marketability that goes with it.
A caution is needed here. A stock does not become a sound
investment merely because it can be bought at close to its asset
value. The investor should demand, in addition, a satisfactory ratio
of earnings to price, a sufficiently strong financial position, and the
prospect that its earnings will at least be maintained over the years.
This may appear like demanding a lot from a modestly priced
stock, but the prescription is not hard to fill under all but danger-
ously high market conditions. Once the investor is willing to forgo
brilliant prospects-i.e., better than average expected growth—-he
will have no difficulty in finding a wide selection of issues meeting
these criteria.
In our chapters on the selection of common stocks (Chapters 14
and 15) we shall give data showing that more than half of the DJIA
issues met our asset-value criterion at the end of 197o. The most
Widely held investment of all--American Tel. & Tel.--actually sells
below its tangible-asset value as we write. Most of the light-and-
power shares, in addition to their other advantages, are now (early
1972) available at prices reasonably close to their asset values.
The investor with a stock portfolio having such book values
behind it can take a much more independent and detached view of
stock-market fluctuations than those who have paid high multipli-
ers of both earnings and tangible assets. As long as the earning
      s sn s r s
attention as he pleases to the vagaries of the stock market. More
than that, at times he can use these vagaries to play the master
game of buying low and selling high.
The A. & P. Example
S         s 
which dates back many years but which has a certain fascination
for us because it combines so many aspects of corporate and
investment experience. It involves the Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea
Co. Here is the story:
The Investor and Market Fluctuations
201
A. & P. shares were introduced to trading on the "Curb" market,
now the American Stock Exchange, in 1929 and sold as high as 494.
By 1932 they had declined to 104, although the company's earnings
were nearly as large in that generally catastrophic year as previ-
ously. In 1936 the range was between 111 and 131. Then in the busi-
ness recession and bear market of 1938 the shares fell to a new low
of36.
That price was extraordinary. It.meant that the preferred and
common were together selling for $126 million, although the com-
pany had just reported that it held $85 million in cash alone and a
working capital (or net current assets) of $134 million. A. & P. was
the largest retail enterprise in America, if not in the world, with a
continuous and impressive record of large earnings for many
years. Yet in 1938 this outstanding business was considered on
Wall Street to be worth less than its current assets alone-which
means less as a going concern than if it were liquidated. Why?
First, because there were threats of special taxes on chain stores;
second, because net profits had fallen off in the previous year; and,
third, because the general market was depressed. The first of these
other two were typical of temporary influences.
Let us assume that the investor had bought A. & P. common in
1937 at, say, 12 times its five-year average earnings, or about 80. We
are far from asserting that the ensuing decline to 36 was of no
importance to him. He would have been well advised to scrutinize
the picture with some care, to see whether he had made any mis-
calculations. But if the results of his study were reassuring--as
they should'have been---he was entitled then to disregard the mar-
ket decline as a temporary vagary of finance, unless he had the
funds and the courage to take advantage of it by buying more on
the bargain basis offered.
Sequel and Reflections
The following year, 1939, A. & P. shares advanced to 117%, or
three times the low price of 1938 and well above the average of
