### 1937. Such a turnabout in the behavior of common stocks is by no

s  s       n  q  s
than most. In the years after 1949 the grocery chain's shares rose
202
The Intelligent Investor
with the general market until in 1961 the split-up stock (10 for 1)
reached a high of 70% which was equivalent to 705 for the 1938
shares.
This price of 70% was remarkable for the fact it was 30 times the
earnings of 1961. Such a price/earnings ratiowhich compares
          s  
tations of a brilliant growth in earnings. This optimism had no jus-
tification in the company's earnings record in the preceding years,
and it proved completely wrong. Instead of advancing rapidly, the
course of earnings in the ensuing period was generally
downward.
The year after the 70% high the price fell by more than half to 34.
But this time the shares did not have the bargain quality that they
showed at the low quotation in 1938. After varying sorts of fluctua-
tions the price fell to another low of 21% in 1970 and 18 in 1972--
having reported the first quarterly deficit in its history.
We see in this history how wide can be the vicissitudes of a
S s        
and also with what miscalculations and excesses of optimism and
pessimism the public has valued its shares. In 1938 the business
was really being given away, with no takers; in 1961 the public was
clamoring
for the shares at a ridiculously
 high price. After that
came a quick loss of half the market value, and some years later a
substantial further decline. In the meantime the company was to
turn from an outstanding to a mediocre earnings performer; its
profit in the b0om-year 1968 was to be less than in 1958; it had paid
a series of confusing small stock dividends not warranted by the
current additions to surplus; and so forth. A. & P. was a larger com-
pany in 1961 and 1972 than in 1938, but not as well-run, not as
profitable, and not as attractive.*
There are two chief morals to this story. The first is that the stock
market often goes far wrong, and sometimes an alert and coura-
* The more recent history of A & P is no different. At year-end 1999, its
share price was $27.875; at year-end 2000, $7.00; a year later, $23.78; at
year-end 2002, $8.06. Although some accounting irregularities later came
to light at A & P, it defies all logic to believe that the value of a relatively sta-
ble business like groceries could fall by three-fourths in one year, triple the
next year, then drop by two-thirds the year after that.
The Investor and Market Fluctuations
203
geous investor can take advantage of its patent errors. The other is
that most businesses change in character and quality over the
years, sometimes for the better, perhaps more often for the worse.
        s 
hawk; but he should give it a good, hard look from time to time.
Let us return to our comparison between the holder of mar-
ketable shares and the man with an interest in a private business.
We have said that the former has the option of considering himself
merely as the part owner of the various businesses he has invested
in, or as the holder of shares which are salable at any time he
 wishes at their quoted market price.
But note this important fact: The true investor scarcely ever is
forced to sell his shares, and at all other times he is free to disregard
the current price quotation. He need pay attention to it and act
upon it only to the extent that it suits his book, and no more.* Thus
the investor who permits himself to be stampeded or unduly wor-
ried by unjustified market declines in his holdings i
is perversely
transforming his basic advantage into a basic disadvantage. That
man would be better off if his stocks had no market quotation at
all, for he would then be spared the mental anguish caused him by
other persons' mistakes of judgment.t
Incidentally, a widespread situation of this kind actually existed
during the dark depression
days of 1931-1933. There was then a
psychological advantage in owning business interests that had no
quoted market. For example, people who owned first mortgages
On real estate that continued to pay interest were able to tell them-
selves that their investments had kept their full value, there being
no market quotations to indicate otherwise. On the other hand,
many listed corporation bonds of even better quality and greater
ayi teut suaxa ayi oi Auo, sueau ,yoog s!y shins 1! yey yuaixa aui oi Auo, *
price is favorable enough to justify selling the stock." In traditional brokerage
lingo, the "book" is an investor's ledger of holdings and trades.
+ This may well be the single most important paragraph in Graham's entire
book. In these 113 words Graham sums up his lifetime of experience. You
cannot read these words too often; they are like Kryptonite for bear markets.
If you keep them close at hand and let them guide you throughout your
investing life, you will survive whatever the markets throw at you.
204
The Intelligent Investor
underlying strength suffered severe shrinkages in their market
quotations, thus making their owners believe they were growing
distinctly poorer. In reality the owners were better off with the
listed securities, despite the low prices of these. For if they had
wanted to, or were compelled to, they could at least have sold the
issues--possibly to exchange them for even better bargains. Or
they could just as logically have ignored the market's action as
temporary and basically meaningless. But it is self-deception to tell
yourself that you have suffered no shrinkage in value merely
because your securities have no quoted market at all.
Returning to our A. & P. shareholder in 1938, we assert that as
long as he held on to his shares he suffered no loss in their price
decline, beyond what his own judgment may have told him was
occasioned by a shrinkage in their underlying or intrinsic value. If
no such shrinkage had occurred, he had a right to expect that in
due course the market quotation would return to the 1937 level or
 s s s      t   s
tion was at least as good as if he had owned an interest in a private
business with no quoted market for its shares. For in that case, too,
he might or might not have been justified in mentally lopping off
part of the cost of his holdings because of the impact of the 1938
recession--depending on what had-happened to his company.
Critics of the value approach to stock investment argue that
listed common stocks cannot properly be regarded or appraised in
the same way as an interest in a similar private enterprise, because
the presence of an organized security market "injects into equity
ownership the new and extremely important attribute of liquidity.
But what this liquidity really means is, first, that the investor has
the benefit of the stock market's daily and changing appraisal of
his holdings, for whatever that appraisal may be worth, and, second,
that the investor is able to increase or decrease his investment at
the market's daily figure--if he chooses. Thus the existence of a
quoted market gives the investor certain options that he does not
have if his security is unquoted. But it does not impose the current
quotation on an investor who prefers to take his idea of value from
some other source.
 Let us close this section with something in the nature of a para-
ble. Imagine that in some private business you own a small share
that cost you $1,0o0. One of your partners, named Mr. Market, is
The Investor and Market Fluctuations
205
very obliging indeed. Every day he tells you what he thinks your
interest is worth and furthermore offers either to buy you out or to
sell you an additional interest on that basis. Sometimes his idea of
and prospects as you know them. Often, on the other hand, Mr.
Market lets his enthusiasm or his fears run away with him, and the
value he proposes seems to you a little short of silly.
If you are a prudent investor or a sensible businessman, will you
let Mr. Market's daily communication determine your view of the
value of a $1,000 interest in the enterprise? Only in case you agree
with him, or in case you want to trade with him. You may be happy
to sell out to him when he quotes you a ridiculously high price,
and equally happy to buy from him when his price is low. But the
 n s o    m a m on   go i
about its operations and financial position.
The true investor is in that very position when he owns a listed
common stock. He can take advantage of the daily market price or
leave it alone, as dictated by his own judgment and inclination. He
must take cognizance of important price movements, for otherwise
his judgment will have nothing to work on. Conceivably they may
give him a warning signal which he will do well to heed-this in
plain English means that he is to sell his shares because the price has
gone down, foreboding worse things to come. In our view such sig-
nals are misleading at least as often as they are helpful. Basically.
price fluctuations have only
y one significant meaning for the true
investor. They provide him with an opportunity to buy wisely
when prices fall sharply and to sell wisely when they advance a
great deal. At other times he will do better if he forgets about the
stock market and pays attention to his dividend returns and to the
operating results of his companies.
Summary
The most realistic distinction between the investor and the spec-
ulator is found in their attitude toward stock-market movements.
The speculator's primary interest lies in anticipating and profiting
from market fluctuations. The investor's primary
 interest lies in
acquiring and holding suitable securities at suitable prices. Market
206
The Intelligent Investor
movements are important to him in a practical sense, because they
alternately create low price levels at which he would be wise to
buy and high price levels at which he certainly should refrain from
buying and probably would be wise to sell.
 It is far from certain that the typical investor should regularly
hold off buying until low market levels appear, because this may
involve a long wait, very likely the loss of income, and the possible
missing of investment opportunities. On the whole it may be better
for the investor to do his stock buying whenever he has money to
put in stocks, except when the general market level is much higher
than can be justified by well-established standards of value. If he
wants to be shrewd he can look for the ever-present bargain oppor-
tunities in individual securities.
Aside from forecasting the movements of the general market,
much effort and ability are directed on Wall Street toward selecting
stocks or industrial groups that in matter of price, will "do better"
than the rest over a fairly short period in the future. Logical as this
endeavor may seem, we do not believe it is suited to the needs or
temperament of the true investor—particularly since he would be
competing with a large number of stock-market traders and first-
class financial analysts who are trying to do the same thing. As
in all other activities that emphasize price movements first and
underlying values second, the work of many intelligent minds con-
defeating over the years.
The investor with a portfolio of sound stocks should expect their
prices to fluctuate and should neither be concerned by sizable
declines nor become excited by sizable advances. He should
always remember that market quotations are there for his conve-
nience, either to be taken advantage of or to be ignored. He should
never buy a stock because it has gone up or sell one because it has
gone down. He would not be far wrong if this motto read more
simply: "Never buy a stock immediately after a substantial rise or
sell one immediately after a substantial drop."
An Added Consideration
Something should be said about the significance of average mar-
ket prices as a measure of managerial competence. The shareholder
The Investor and Market Fluctuations
207
judges whether his own investment has been successful in terms
both of dividends received and of the long-range trend of the aver-
age market value. The same criteria should logically be applied in
testing the effectiveness of a company's management and the
soundness of its attitude toward the owners of the business.
This statement may sound like a truism, but it needs to be
emphasized. For as yet there is no accepted technique or approach
by which management is brought to the bar of market opinion. On
the contrary, managements have always insisted that they have no
responsibility of any kind for what happens to the market value of
their shares. It is true, of course, that they are not accountable for
those fluctuations in price which, as we have been insisting, bear no
relationship to underlying conditions and values. But it is only the
lack of alertness and intelligence among the rank and file of share-
holders that permits this immunity to extend to the entire realm of
market quotations, including the permanent establishment of a
depreciated and unsatisfactory price level. Good managements
produce a good average market price, and bad managements pro-
duce bad market prices.*
Fluctuations in Bond Prices
The investor should be aware that even though safety of its prin-
cipal and interest may be unquestioned, a long-term bond could
vary widely in market price in response to changes in interest rates.
In Table 8-1 we give data for various years back to 1902 covering
yields for high-grade corporate and tax-free issues. As individual
illustrations we add the price fluctuations of two representative
railroad issues for a similar period. (These are the Atchison, Topeka
& Santa Fe general mortgage 4s, due 1995, for generations one of
our premier noncallable bond issues, and the Northern Pacific Ry.
3s, due 2047—originally a 150-year maturity!—long a typical Baa-
rated bond.)
Because of their inverse relationship the low yields correspond
to the high prices and vice versa. The decline in the Northern
* Graham has much more to say on what is now known as "corporate gov-
ernance:" See the commentary on Chapter 19.
208
The Intelligent Investor
Pacific 3s in 1940 represented mainly doubts as to the safety of the
issue. It is extraordinary that the price recovered to an all-time high
in the next few years, and then lost two-thirds of its price chiefly
because of the rise in general interest rates. There have been star-
tling variations, as well, in the price of even the highest-grade
bonds in the past forty years.
Note that bond prices do not fluctuate in the same (inverse) pro-
portion as the calculated yields, because their fixed maturity value
of 100% exerts a moderating influence. However, for very
1ong
maturities, as in our Northern Pacific example, prices and yields
change at close to the same rate.
Since 1964 record movements in both directions have taken place
  ,   q   
free) as an example, their yield more than doubled, from 3.2% in
January 1965 to 7% in June 1970. Their price index declined, corre-
spondingly, from 110.8 to 67.5. In mid-1970 the yields on high-
grade long-term bonds were higher than at any time in the nearly
200 years of this country's economic history.* Twenty-five years earlier,
just before our protracted bull market began, bond yields were at
their lowest point in history; long-term municipals returned as little
as 1%, and industrials gave 2.40% compared with the 4% to 5% for-
merly considered "normal." Those of us with a long experience on
Wall Street had seen Newton's law of "action and reaction, equal
most noteworthy example being
the rise in the DJIA from 64 in
1921 to 381 in 1929, followed by a record collapse to 41 in 1932. But
this time the widest pendulum swings took place in the usually
staid and slow-moving array of high-grade bond prices and yields.
Moral: Nothing important on Wall Street can be counted on to
occur exactly in the same way as it happened before. This repre-
term U.S. Treasury bonds hit their fowest levels since 1963. Since bond
yields move inversely to prices, those low yields meant that prices had
fisen-making investors most eager to buy just as bonds were at their most
expensive and as their future returns were almost guaranteed to be low. This
provides another proof of Graham's lesson that the intelligent investor must
refuse to make decisions based on market fluctuations.
Nor. Pac.
3s, 2047
 Fluctuations in Bond Yields, and in Prices of Two Representative Bond Issues, 1902-1970
49%
3
2
37%
BondPrices
A. T.&S. F.
4s, 1995
105%
117%
9
10
15
9G
1939-4010W
1905 high
1936 high
1946 high
1971 close
1930 high
1920low
1932low
1970 low
Municipals
S&P
3.11%
5.28
3.90
5.27
5.5
904
5.35
BondYields
Composite
S&P
AAA
4.31%
6.40
4.53
5.52
2.44
8.44
7.14
TABLE 8-11
1932 high
1970 high
1971 close
1902 low
1920 high
1928 low
1946 low
210
The Intelligent Investor
sents the first half of our favorite dictum: "The more it changes, the
more it's the same thing."
If it is virtually impossible to make worthwhile predictions
about the price movements of stocks, it is completely impossible to
do so for bonds.* In the old days, at least, one could often find a
useful clue to the coming end of a bull or bear market by studying
the prior action of bonds, but no similar clues were given to a com-
ing change in interest rates and bond prices. Hence the investor
must choose between long-term and short-term bond investments
on the basis chiefly of his personal preferences. If he wants to be
certain that the market values will not decrease, his best choices are
      s s ss  
above, p. 93. Either issue will give him a 5% yield (after the first
year), the Series E for up to 5% years, the Series H for up to ten
years, with a guaranteed resale value of cost or better.
If the investor wants the 7.5% now available on good long-term
corporate bonds, or the 5.3% on tax-free municipals, he must be
prepared to see them fluctuate in price. Banks and insurance com-
panies have the privilege of valuing high-rated bonds of this type
on the mathematical basis of "amortized cost," which disregards
market prices; it would not be a bad idea for the individual
investor to do something similar.
The price fluctuations of convertible bonds and preferred stocks
are the resultant of three different factors: (1) variations in the
price of the related common stock, (2) variations in the credit
standing of the company, and (3) variations in general interest
rates. A good many of the convertible issues have been sold by
companies that have credit ratings well below the best.? Some of
these were badly affected by the financial squeeze in 1970. As a
result, convertible issues as a whole have been subjected to triply
unsettling influences in recent years, and price variations have
been unusually wide. In the typical case, therefore, the investor
would delude himself if he expected to find in convertible issues
that ideal combination of the safety of a high-grade bond and price
* An updated analysis for today's readers, explaining recent yields and the
wider variety of bonds and bond funds available today, can be found in the
commentary on Chapter 4.
The Investor and Market Fluctuations
211
protection plus a chance to benefit from an advance in the price of
the common.
This may be a good place to make a suggestion about the "long-
term bond of the future." Why should not the effects of changing
interest rates be divided on some practical and equitable .basis
between the borrower and the lender? One possibility would be to
sell long-term bonds with interest payments that vary with an
appropriate index of the going rate. The main results of such an
arrangement would be: (1) the investor's bond would always have
a principal value of about 100, if the company maintains its credit
rating, but the interest received will vary, say, with the rate offered
on conventional new issues; (2) the corporation would have the
advantages of long-term debt--being spared problems and costs of
frequent renewals of refinancing-—but its interest costs would
change from year to year.
Over the past decade the bond investor has been confronted by
an increasingly serious dilemma: Shall he choose complete stability
of principal value, but with varying and usually low (short-term)
interest rates? Or shall he choose a fixed-interest income, with
considerable variations (usually downward, it seems) in his princi-
pal value? It would be good for most investors if they could
their interest return nor their principal value will fall below a
stated minimum over, say, a 20-year period. This could be
arranged, without great difficulty, in an appropriate bond contract
     e     e 
done a similar thing in its combination of the original savings-
bonds contracts with their extensions at higher interest rates. The
suggestion we make here would cover a longer fixed investment
period than the savings bonds, and would introduce more flexibil-
ity in the interest-rate provisions.*
It is hardly worthwhile to talk about nonconvertible preferred
stocks, since their special tax status makes the safe ones much more
desirable holdings by corporations-—e.g., insurance companies-
* As mentioned in the commentary on Chapters 2 and 4, Treasury Inflation-
Protected Securities, or TlPS, are a new and improved version of what Gra-
ham is suggesting here.
212
The Intelligent Investor
than by individuals. The poorer-quality ones almost always fluctu-
ate over a wide range, percentagewise, not too differently from
common stocks. We can offer no other useful remark about them.
Table 16-2 below, p. 406, gives some information on the price
changes of lower-grade nonconvertible preferreds between Decem-
ber 1968 and December 1970. The average decline was 17%, against
11.3% for the S & P composite index of common stocks.
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 8
The happiness of those who want to be popular depends on
others; the happiness of those who seek pleasure fluctuates
with moods outside their control; but the happiness of the wise
grows out of their own free acts.
-Marcus Aurelius
Dr. Jekyll And mr. marKeT
Most of the time, the market is mostly accurate in pricing most stocks.
Millions of buyers and sellers haggling over price do a remarkably
good job of valuing companies-on average. But sometimes, the price
is not right; occasionally, it is very wrong indeed. And at such times,
you need to understand Graham's image of Mr. Market, probably
s r ia      o s
can become mispriced.1 The manic-depressive Mr. Market does not
value a business. Instead, when stocks are going up, he happily pays
more than their objective value; and, when they are going down, he is
desperate to dump them for less than their true worth.
Is Mr. Market still around? Is he still bipolar? You bet he is.
On March 17, 2000, the stock of Inktomi Corp. hit a new high of
$231.625. Since they first came on the market in June 1998, shares
in the  Internet-searching  software  company had gained   roughly
1,900%. Just in the few weeks since December 1999, the stock had
nearly tripled.
What was going on at Inktomi the business that could make Inktomi
the stock so valuable? The answer seems obvious: phenomenally fast
1 See Graham's text, pp. 204-205.
213
214
Commentary on Chapter 8
growth. In the three months ending in December 1999, Inktomi sold
$36 million in products and services, more than it had in the entire
year ending in December 1998. If Inktomi could sustain its growth
rate of the previous 12 months for just five more years, its revenues
would explode from $36 million a quarter to $5 billion a month. With
such growth in sight, the faster the stock went up, the farther up it
seemed certain to go.
But in his wild love affair with Inktomi's stock, Mr. Market was over-
looking something about its business. The company was losing
money-lots of it. It had lost $6 million in the most recent quarter, $24
million in the 12 months before that, and $24 million in the year before
that. In its entire corporate lifetime, Inktomi had never made a dime in
profits. Yet, on March 17, 2o00, Mr. Market valued this tiny business at
a total of $25 billion. (Yes, that's billion, with a B.)
And then Mr. Market went into a sudden, nightmarish depression.
On September 30, 2002, just two and a half years after hitting
$231.625 per share, Inktomi's stock closed at 25 cents-collapsing
from a total market value of $25 billion to less than $40 million. Had
Inktomi's business dried up? Not at all; over the previous 12 months,
the company had generated $113 milion in revenues. So what had
changed? Only Mr. Market's mood: In early 2oo0, investors were
so wild about the Internet that they priced Inktomi's shares at 250
times the company's revenues. Now, however, they would pay only
0.35 times its revenues. Mr. Market had morphed from Dr. Jekyll to Mr.
 e ap pey sun yoois Aasa busen Aisnoioat sem pue ap
out of him.
But Mr. Market was no more justified in his midnight rage than he
had been in his manic euphoria. On December 23, 2002, Yahoo! Inc.
announced that it would buy Inktomi for $1.65 per share. That was
nearly seven times Inktomi's stock price on September 30. History will
probably show that Yahoo! got a bargain. When Mr. Market makes
stocks so cheap, it's no wonder that entire companies get bought
right out from under him.?
2 As Graham noted in a classic series of articles in 1932, the Great Depres-
sion caused the shares of dozens of companies to drop below the value of
their cash and other liquid assets, making them "worth more dead than
alive."
Commentary on Chapter 8
215
Think for yourself
Would you willingly allow a certifiable lunatic to come by at least five
times a week to tell you that you should feel exactly the way he feels?
Would you ever agree to be euphoric just because he is-or miserable
bo ssisu! p,no, 'lou asinoo jo teg pinous nos syuiyi ay asneoag isn!
your right to take control of your own emotional life, based on your
experiences and your beliefs. But, when it comes to their financial
lives, millions of people let Mr. Market tell them how to feel and what to
do-despite the obvious fact that, from time to time, he can get nuttier
than a fruitcake.
In 1999, when Mr. Market was squealing with delight, American
employees directed an average of 8.6% of their paychecks into their
        si  (o
years stuffing stocks into black garbage bags, the average contribu-
tion rate had dropped by nearly one-quarter, to just 7%.? The cheaper
stocks got, the less eager people became to buy them-because they
were imitating Mr. Market, instead of thinking for themselves.
The intelligent investor shouldn't ignore Mr. Market entirely. Instead,
you should do business with him-but only to the extent that it serves
your interests. Mr. Market's job is to provide you with prices; your job
is to decide whether it is to your advantage to act on them. You do not
have to trade with him just because he constantly begs you to.
By refusing to let Mr. Market be your master, you transform him into
your servant. After all, even when he seems to be destroying values,
he is creating them elsewhere. In 1999, the Wilshire 5000 index-the
broadest measure of U.S. stock performance-gained 23.8%, pow-
ered by technology and telecommunications stocks. But 3,743 of the
7,234 stocks in the Wilshire index went down in value even as the
average was rising. While those high-tech and telecom stocks were
hotter than the hood of a race car on an August afternoon, thousands
of "Old Economy" shares were frozen in the mud-getting cheaper and
cheaper.
The stock of CMGl, an "incubator" or holding company for Internet
to Prevent Declining Participation and Deferrals into Defined Contribution
Plans," October 25, 2002.
Final value
000'I$ J0
invested
1/1/1999
1,328
2,359
1,517
1,476
3,127
1,294
2,665
1,453
2,059
1,241
315
2002
94.1
、46.0
5.0
11.2
26.3
201.6
24.7
10.3
1.0
-45.0
-20.8
Total Return -
2000　2001
55.3
-46.2
-11.0
19.3
66.2
41.1
42.3
38.0
57.1
39.0
70.5
32.2
21.6
-55.5
1.8
19.2
63.9
33.0
136.1
21.9
50.0
58.0
63.9
-10.9
1999
-43.7
-12.7
-45.5
-25.1
-16.3
-39.1
-62.5
-46.9
-33.2
-23.5
139.1
23.8
metal & plastic packaging
gambling equipment
defense & aerospace
industrial uniforms
home furnishings
discount retailer
Sources: Aronson + Johnson + Ortiz, L.P.; www.wilshire.com
snuff tobacco
Business
fast food
trucking
dde
FIGURE 8-1 From Stinkers to Stars
Wilshire 5000 index (total stock market)
International Game Technology
Checkers Drive-In Restaurants
J B Hunt Transportation
Wilshire Internet Index
Jos. A. Bank Clothiers
Family Dollar Stores
Lockheed Martin
Pier 1 Imports
Company
Ball Corp.
Angelica
UST Inc.
Commentary on Chapter 8
217
start-up firms, went up an astonishing 939.9% in 1999. Meanwhile, Berk-
shire Hathaway--the holding company through which Graham's greatest
disciple, Warren Buffett, owns such Old Economy stalwarts as Coca-
Cola, Gillette, and the Washington Post Co.-dropped by 24.9%.4
poow uappns e pey ayew aui 'saop uaho os l! se 'uaut ing
swing. Figure 8-1 offers a sampling of how the stinkers of 1999 be-
came the stars of 2000 through 2002.
As for those two holding companies, CMGl went on to lose 96% in
2000, another 70.9% in 2001, and still 39.8% more in 2002-a cumulative
loss of 99.3%. Berkshire Hathaway went up 26.6% in 2000 and 6.5% in
Can You beat the pros at their own Game?
One of Graham's most powerful insights is this: "The investor who
permits himself to be stampeded or unduly worried by unjustified mar-
ket declines in his holdings is perversely transforming his basic advan-
tage into a basic disadvantage."
What does Graham mean by those words "basic advantage"? He
means that the intelligent individual investor has the full freedom to
choose whether or not to follow Mr. Market. You have the luxury of
being able to think for yourself.5
^ A few months later, on March 10, 2000-the very day that NASDAQ hit its all-
,  u  m s ' s n  aor 
edly" been tempted in recent days to sell Berkshire Hathaway short, a bet that
Cramer even declared that Berkshire's shares were "ripe for the banging?" That
same day, market strategist Ralph Acampora of Prudential Securities asked,
"Norfolk Southern or Cisco Systems: Where do you want to be in the future?"
Cisco, a key to tomorrow's lnternet superhighway, seemed to have it all over
Norfolk Southern, part of yesterday's railroad system. (Over the next year, Nor-
folk Southern gained 35%, while Cisco lost 70%.)
5 When asked what keeps most individual investors from succeeding, Gra-
ham had a concise answer: “The primary cause of failure is that they pay too
much attention to what the stock market is doing currently." See "Benjamin
magazine, no. 42, March, 1991, p. 8.
218
Commentary on Chapter 8
The typical money manager, however, has no choice but to mimic Mr.
Market's every move-buying high, selling low, marching almost mind-
lessly in his erratic footsteps. Here are some of the handicaps mutual-
fund managers and other professional investors are saddled with:
With billions of dollars under management, they must gravitate
toward the biggest stocks-the only ones they can buy in the
multimillion-dollar quantities they need to fill their portfolios. Thus
many funds end up owning the same few overpriced giants.
Investors tend to pour more money into funds as the market rises.
The managers use that new cash to buy more of the stocks they
If fund investors ask for their money back when the market drops,
the managers may need to sell stocks to cash them out. Just as
the funds are forced to buy stocks at inflated prices in a rising
market, they become forced sellers as stocks get cheap again.
Many portfolio managers get bonuses for beating the market, so
they obsessively measure their returns against benchmarks like
the S & P 5o0 index. If a company gets added to an index, hun-
dreds of funds compulsively buy it. (lf they don't, and that stock
then does well, the managers look foolish; on the other hand, if
they buy it and it does poorly, no one will blame them.)
medicine the general practitioner has given way to the pediatric
or nothing but "large blend" stocks. If a company gets too big, or
too small, or too cheap, or an itty bit too expensive, the fund has
to sell it-even if the manager loves the stock.
So there's no reason you can't do as well as the pros. What you
cannot do (despite all the pundits who say you can) is to "beat the
pros at their own game:' The pros can't even win their own game!
Why should you want to play it at all? lf you follow their rules, you wil
lose-since you wil end up as much a siave to Mr. Market as the pro-
fessionals are.
6 Never mind what these terms mean, or are supposed to mean. While in
  sae o e a     o
Jou dwauoo au yhm waun pebau ssauisnq tuawsaauy aui u! eidoad ssow
mally reserved for jokes that aren't funny.
Commentary on Chapter 8
219
Instead, recognize that investing intelligently is about controlling
the controllable. You can't control whether the stocks or funds you buy
will outperform the market today, next week, this month, or this year; in
the short run, your returns will always be hostage to Mr. Market and
his whims. But you can control:
your brokerage costs, by trading rarely, patiently, and cheaply
your ownership costs, by refusing to buy mutual funds with
excessive annual expenses
your expectations, by using realism, not fantasy, to forecast your
returns?
your risk, by deciding how much of your total assets to put at
hazard in the stock market, by diversifying, and by rebalancing
your tax bills, by holding stocks for at least one year and, when-
ever possible, for at least five years, to lower your capital-gains lia-
bility
and, most of all, your own behavior.
If you listen to financial TV, or read most market columnists, you'd
think that investing is some kind of sport, or a war, or a struggle for
survival in a hostile wilderness. But investing isn't about beating oth-
ers at their game. It's about controlling yourself at your own game.
The challenge for the intelligent investor is not to find the stocks that
will go up the most and down the least, but rather to prevent yourself
from being your own worst enemy-from buying high just because Mr.
Market says "Buy!" and from selling low just because Mr. Market says
"illes.
If you investment horizon is long--at least 25 or 30 years-there is
whenever else you can spare some money. The single best choice for
this lifelong holding is a total stock-market index fund. Sell only when
you need the cash (for a psychological boost, clip out and sign your
"Investment Owner's Contract"-which you can find on p. 225).
To be an inteligent investor, you must also refuse to judge your
 op a ss e o   ao  s 
not one penny poorer if someone in Dubuque or Dallas or Denver
7 See the brilliant column by Walter Updegrave, “Keep It Real," Money, Feb-
ruary, 2002, pp. 53-56.
220
Commentary on Chapter 8
beats the S & P 5o0 and you don't. No one's gravestone reads “HE
BEAT THE MARKET"
I once interviewed a group of retirees in Boca Raton, one of
Florida's wealthiest retirement communities. I asked these people-
      e  e  
investing lifetimes. Some said yes, some said no; most weren't sure.
Then one man said, "Who cares? All I know is, my investments earned
enough for me to end up in Boca."
Could there be a more perfect answer? After all, the whole point of
no a ona   a   o o s busi
money to meet your own needs. The best way to measure your invest-
ing. success is not by whether you're beating the market but by
whether you've put in place a financial plan and a behavioral discipline
that are likely to get you where you want to go. In the end, what mat-
sure that you do cross it."
Your money and your brain
Why, then, do investors find Mr. Market so seductive? It turns out that
our brains are hardwired to get us into investing trouble; humans are
pattern-seeking animals. Psychologists have shown that if you present
people with a random sequence-and tell them that it's unpre-
dictable-they will nevertheless insist on trying to guess what's coming
next. Likewise, we "know" that the next roll of the dice will be a seven,
that a baseball player is due for a base hit, that the next winning num-
ber in the Powerball lottery will definitely be 4-27-9-16-42-10-and
that this hot little stock is the next Microsoft.
Groundbreaking new research in neuroscience shows that our
exist. After an event occurs just two or three times in a row, regions of
the human brain caled the anterior cingulate and nucleus accumbens
automatically anticipate that it will happen again. If it does repeat, a
natural chemical cailed dopamine is released, flooding your brain with
a soft euphoria. Thus, if a stock goes up a few times in a row, you
reflexively expect it to keep going-and your brain chemistry changes
'dd 'oooz Yenuer Xauow diayuew ayn teeg no, pia, 'biamz uoser aas :
55-58.
Commentary on Chapter 8
221
as the stock rises, giving you a "natural high:" You effectively become
addicted to your own predictions.
But when stocks drop, that financial loss fires up your amygdala-
the part of the brain that processes fear and anxiety and generates the
famous "fight or flight" response that is common to all cornered ani-
mals. Just as you can't keep your heart rate from rising if a fire alarm
goes off, just as you can't avoid flinching if a rattlesnake slithers onto
your hiking path, you can't help feeling fearful when stock prices are
plunging.9.
In fact, the brilliant psychoiogists Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tver-
sky have shown that the pain of financial loss is more than twice as
intense as the pleasure of an equivalent gain. Making $1,oo0 on a
stock feels great--but a $1,ooo loss wields an emotional wallop more
ajdoad Xuew jeyi injuied os s! Kauow buisol 'injamod se aoimi ueu
terrified at the prospect of any further loss, sell out near the bottom or
refuse to buy more.
That helps expiain why we fixate on the raw magnitude of a market
decline and forget to put the loss in proportion. So, if a TV reporter
hollers, "The market is plunging-the Dow is down 100 points!" most
people instinctively shudder. But, at the Dow's recent level of 8,o00,
that's a drop of just 1.2%. Now think how ridiculous it would sound if,
on a day when it's 81 degrees outside, the TV weatherman shrieked,
"The temperature is plunging-it's dropped from 81 degrees to 80
degrees!" That, too, is a 1.2%o drop. When you forget to view chang-
ing market prices in
n percentage terms, it's all'too easy to panic over
minor vibrations. (lf you have decades of. investing ahead of you,
there's a better way to visualize the financial news broadcasts; see the
sidebar on p. 222.)
In the late 1990s, many people came to feel that they were in the
dark unless they checked the prices of their stocks several times a
day. But, as Graham puts it, the typical investor "would be better off if .
his stocks had no market quotation at all, for he would then be spared
the mental anguish caused him by other persons' mistakes of judg-
 The neuroscience of investing is explored in Jason Zweig, "Are You Wired
for Wealth?" Money, October, 2002, pp. 74-83, also available at http://
money.cnn.com/2002/09/25/pf/investing/agenda_brain _short/index.htm. See
also Jason Zweig, "The Trouble with Humans, Money, November, 2000, pp.
67-70.
222
Commentary on Chapter 8
News you could use
Stocks are crashing, so you turn on the television to catch the
latest market news. But instead of CNBC or CNN, imagine that
you can tune in to the Benjamin Graham Financial Network. On
BGFN, the audio doesn't capture that famous sour clang of the
market's closing bell; the video doesn't home in on brokers
scurrying across the floor of the stock exchange like angry
rodents. Nor does BGFN run any footage of investors gasping
on frozen sidewalks as red arrows whiz overhead on electronic
stock tickers.
Instead, the image that fills your TV screen is the facade of
the New York Stock Exchange, festooned with a huge banner
reading: "SALE! 5o% OFF!" As intro music, Bachman-Turner
Overdrive can be heard blaring a few bars of their old barn-
   o  s,  s
today, as the Dow dropped another 2.5% on heavy volume-the
fourth day in a row that stocks have gotten cheaper. Tech
investors fared even better, as leading companies like Microsoft
lost nearly 5%o on the day, making them even more affordable.
That comes on top of the good news of the past year, in which
stocks have already lost 50%, putting them at bargain leveis not
seen in years. And some prominent analysts are optimistic that
prices may drop still further in the weeks and months to come."
The newscast cuts over to market strategist Ignatz Anderson
of. the Wall Street firm of Ketchum & Skinner, who says, “My
forecast is for stocks to lose another 15% by June. I'm cau-
tiously optimistic that if everything goes well, stocks couid lose
25%o, maybe more."
"Let's hope Ignatz Anderson is right," the anchor says cheer-
poom Xiem ot lao mou puv 'uozjuoy buol Aan e ym loisaau!
for our exclusive AccuWeather forecast"
Commentary on Chapter 8
223
ment:" If, after checking the value of your stock portfolio at 1:24 P.M.,
you feel compelled to check it all over again at 1:37 p.M., ask yourself
these questions:
Did I call a real-estate agent to check the market price of my
house at 1:24 P.m.? Did I call back at 1 :37 p.m.?
If I had, would the price have changed? If it did, would I have
rushed to sell my house?
By not checking, or even knowing, the market price of my house
from minute to minute, do I prevent its value from rising over time?10
The only possible answer to these questions is of course not! And
you should view your portfolio the same way. Over a 10- or 20- or 30-
year investment horizon, Mr. Market's daily dipsy-doodles simply do not
matter. In any case, for anyone who will be investing for years to come,
falling stock prices are good news, not bad, since they enable you to
buy more for less money. The longer and further stocks fall, and the
more steadily you keep buying as they drop, the more money you will
make in the end-if you remain steadfast until the end. Instead of fear-
ing a bear market, you should embrace it. The intelligent investor
should be perfectly comfortable owning a stock or mutual fund even if
the stock market stopped supplying daily prices for the next 10 years.11
Paradoxically, "you will be much more in control,' explains neurosci-
entist Antonio Damasio, "if you realize how much you are not in con-
trol:" By acknowledging your biological tendency to buy high and sel!
low, you can admit the need to dollar-cost average, rebalance, and
sign an investment contract. By putting much of your portfolio on per-
long-term financial goals, and tune out Mr. Market's mood swings.
10 It's also worth asking whether you could enjoy living in your house if its
market price was reported to the last penny every day in the newspapers
and on Tv.
11 In a series of remarkable experiments in the late 1980s, a psychologist at
Columbia and Harvard, Paul Andreassen, showed that investors who
received frequent news updates on their stocks earned half the returns of
investors who got no news at all. See Jason Zweig, "Here's How to Use the
News and Tune Out the Noise; Money, July, 1998, pp. 63-64.
224
Commentary on Chapter 8
When mr. market gives you lemons,
Make lemOnade
Although Graham teaches that you should buy when Mr. Market is
yelling "sell, there's one exception the intelligent investor needs to
understand. Selling into a bear market can make sense if it creates a
tax windfall. The U.s. lnternal Revenue Code allows you to use your
realized losses (any declines in value that you lock in by selling your
shares) to offset up to $3,000 in ordinary income.'2. Let's say you
bought 200 shares of Coca-Cola stock in January 2000 for $60 a
share-a total investment of $12,000. By year-end 2002, the stock
was down to $44 a share, or $8,800 for your lot--a loss of $3,200. "
You could have done what most people do-either whine about
'pauaddey jaau l! puaiaid pue bn aui dapun l! daams jo 'ssol inor
Or you could have taken control. Before 2002 ended, you could have
sold all your Coke shares, locking in the $3,200 loss. Then, after wait-
ing 31 days to comply with IRS rules, you would buy 200 shares of
Coke all over again. The result: You would be able to reduce your tax-
able income by $3,000 in 2002, and you could use the remaining
$200 loss to offset your income in 2003. And better yet, you would
still own a company whose future you believe in-but now you would
own it for almost one-third tess than you paid the first time.3
With Uncle Sam subsidizing your losses, it can make sense to sell
and lock in a loss. If Uncle Sam wants to make Mr. Market look logical
by comparison, who are we to complain?
12 Federal tax law is subject to constant change. The example of Coca-Cola
stock given here is valid under the provisions of the U.S. tax code as it stood
in early 2003.
1 This example assumes that the investor had no realized capital gains in
2002 and did not reinvest any Coke dividends. Tax swaps are not to be
undertaken lightly, since they can be mishandled easily. Before doing a tax
swap, read IRS Publication 550 (www.irs.gov/pub/irspdf/p550.pdf). A
good guide to managing your investment taxes is Robert N. Gordon with
Jan M. Rosen, Wall Street Secrets for Tax-Efficient Investing (Bloomberg
Press, Princeton, New Jersey, 2001). Finally, before you pull the trigger, con-
sult a professional tax adviser.
Investment owner's contract
hereby state that I am an investor
who is seeking to accumulate wealth for many years into the future.
I know that there will be many times when I will be tempted to invest in
pue 'aoud u! dn (.buiob aie, jo) auoe aeey Kayl asneoaq spuoq do syoois
other times when I will be tempted to sell my investments because they have
gone (or "are going") down.
I hereby declare my refusal to let a herd of strangers make my financial
decisions for me. 1 further make a solemn commitment never to invest
because the stock market has gone up, and never to sell because it has
gone down. Instead, I will invest $
.00 per month, every month,
through an automatic investment plan or "dollar-cost averaging program"
into the following mutual fund(s) or diversified portfolio(s) :
I will also invest additional amounts whenever I can afford to spare the
cash (and can afford to lose it in the short run).
I hereby declare that I will hold each of these investments continually
through at least the following date (which must be a minimum of 10 years
after the date of this contact):
 20._. The only
exceptions allowed under the terms of this contract are a sudden, pressing
need for cash, like a healith-care emergency or the loss of my job, or a
planned expenditure like a housing down payment or a tuition bill.
I am, by signing below, stating my intention not oniy to abide by the terms
of this contract, but to re-read this document whenever I am tempted to sell
any of my investments.
This contract is valid only when signed by at least one witness, and must
be kept in a safe place that is easily accessible for future reference.
Signed:
Date:
20
Witnesses:
