### 3. Can he make intelligent choices between different types of

fundse.g., balanced versus all-stock, open-end versus closed-
end, load versus no-load?
Graham omits "to avoid clutter,' a fund can ask the SEC for special permis-
sion to distribute one of its holdings directly to the fund's shareholders-as
his Graham-Newman Corp. did in 1948, parceling out shares in GEICO to
Graham-Newman's own investors. This sort of distribution is extraordinarily rare.
* Dual-purpose funds, popular in the late 1980s, have essentially disap-
peared from the marketplace-a shame, since they offered investors a more
flexible way to take advantage of the skills of great stock pickers like John
Neff. Perhaps the recent bear market will lead to a renaissance of this
attractive investment vehicle.
alent to the aggressive growth funds of the late 1990s, and served their
investors no better.
Investing in Investment Funds
229
Investment-Fund Performance as a Whole
Before trying to answer these questions we should say some-
thing about the performance of the fund industry as a whole. Has
it done a good job for its shareholders? In the most general way,
how have fund investors fared as against those who made their
investments directly? We are quite certain that the funds in the
aggregate have served a useful purpose. They have promoted
good habits of savings and investment; they have protected count-
less individuals against costly mistakes in the stock market; they
have brought their participants income and profits commensurate
with the overall returns from common stocks. On a comparative
basis we would hazard the guess that the average individual who
put his money exclusively in investment-fund shares in the past
ten years has fared better than the average person who made his
common-stock purchases directly.
The last point is probably true even though the actual perfor-
mance of the funds seems to have been no better than that of com-
mon stocks'as a whole, and even though the cost of investing in
mutual funds may have been greater than that of direct purchases.
. The real choice of the average individual has not been between
constructing and acquiring a well-balanced common-stock portfo-
lio or doing the same thing, a bit more.expensively, by buying into
the funds. More likely his choice has been between succumbing to
the wiles of the doorbell-ringing mutual-fund salesman on the one
hand, as against succumbing to the even wilier and much more
dangerous peddlers of second- and third-rate new offerings. We
cannot help thinking, too, that the average individual who opens a
brokerage account with the idea of making conservative common-
stock investments is likely to find himself beset by untoward influ-
ences in the direction of speculation and speculative losses; these
temptations should be much less for the mutual-fund buyer.
But how have the investment funds performed as against the
general market? This is a somewhat controversial subject, but we
shall try to deal with it in simple but adequate fashion. Table 9-1
gives some calculated results for 1961-1970 of our ten largest stock
funds at the end of 1970, but choosing only the largest one from
each management group. It summarizes the overall return of each
of these funds for 1961-1965, 1966-1970, and for the single years
$13,628 (total)
pdns ee dnoia puueue yea uo pu auo uo un jnq 'oel jo pua a e se au isae au um spuy ys au are asu ?
Net Assets,
December
(suo!)
1970
$1,600
2,232
819
1,054
1,168
2,227
1,956
684
1,141
1970
+2.2%
-6.4
+2.2
-5.8
+2.3
-7.2
+0.6
-9.1
-3.8
-2.9
-2.2
+3.5
+8.7
-14.3%
1969
-11.9
-7.4
-12.7
-10.6
-80.0
- 4.0
+ 4.0
-13.3
-10.3
- 8.9
- 8.3
--11.6
1961-1970
TABLE 9-1 Management Results of Ten Large Mutual Fundsa
10 years,
(+ 11)
105.3%
135.4
137.1
81.3
152.2
63.5
44.2
112.2
104.0
72.7
105.8
104.7
83.0
1966-1970
 5 years,
+19.7%
+18.7
+31.8
+ 1.0
+37.9
+ 5.6
+16.2
+31.7
+22.3
- 2.0
18.3
+16.1
+ 2.9
(Indicated)
1961-1965
 5 years,
(+ 11D)
71%
9
9
9
8
18
24-2
78
Investors Stock Fund
National Investors
Standard & Poor's
 composite index
Fundamental Inv.
Invest. Co. of Am.
Mass. Inv. Trust
Putnam Growth
Affiliated Fund
United Accum.
Fidelity Fund
Average
Dreyfus
DJIA
Investing inInvestment Funds
231
1969 and 1970. We also give average results based on the sum of
one share of each of the ten funds. These companies had combined
assets of over $15 billion at the end of 1969, or about one-third of all
the common-stock funds. Thus they should be fairly representative
of the industry as a whole. (In theory, there should be a bias in this
list on the side of better than industry performance, since these bet-
ter companies should have been entitled to more rapid expansion
than the others; but this may not be the case in practice.)
Some interesting facts can be gathered from this table. First, we
find that the 0verall results of these ten funds for 1961-1970 were
not appreciably different from those of the Standard & Poor's 500-
stock composite average (or the S & P 425-industrial stock aver-
age). But they were definitely better than those of the DJIA. (This
a n  s o a m  sn    s
did worse than the much more numerous and apparently rather
miscellaneous list used by Standard & Poor's.)* A second point is
that the funds' aggregate performance as against the S & P index
has improved somewhat in the last five years, compared with the
preceding five. The funds' gain ran a little lower than S & P's in
1961-1965 and a little higher than S & P's in 1966-1970. The third
point is that a wide difference exists between the results of the indi-
vidual funds.
We. do not think the mutual-fund industry can be criticized for
doing no better than the market as a whole. Their managers and
their professional competitors administer so large a portion of all
marketable common stocks that what happens to the market as a
whole must necessarily happen (approximately) to the sum of their
funds. (Note that the trust assets of insured commercial banks
included $181 billion of common stocks at the end of 1969; if we
add to this the common stocks in accounts handled by investment
advisers, plus the $56 billion of mutual and similar funds, we must
conclude that the combined decisions of these professionals pretty
well determine the movements of the stock averages, and that the
* For periods as long as 10 years, the returns of the Dow and the S & P 500
can diverge by fairly wide margins. Over the course of the typical investing
lifetime, however-say 25 to 50 years-their returns have tended to converge
quiteclosely.
232
The Intelligent Investor
movement of the stock averages pretty well determines the funds'
aggregate results.)
Are there better than average funds and can the investor select
these so as to obtain superior results for himself? Obviously all
investors could not do this, since in that case we would soon be
back where we started, with no one doing better than anyone else.
Let us consider the question first in a simplified fashion. Why
shouldn't the investor find out what fund has made the best show-
ing of the lot over a period of sufficient years in the past, assume
from this that its management is the most capable and will there-
fore do better than average in the future, and put his money in that
fund? This idea appears the more practicable because, in the case
of the mutual funds, he could obtain this "most capable manage-
ment" without paying any special premium for it as against the
other funds. (By contrast, among noninvestment corporations the
best-managed companies sell at correspondingly high prices in
relation to their current earnings and assets.)
The evidence on this point has been conflicting over the years.
But our Table 9-1 covering the ten largest funds indicates that the
results shown by the top five performers of 1961-1965 carried over
on the whole through 1966-1970, even though two of this set did not
do as well as two of the other five. Our studies indicate that the
investor in mutual-fund shares may properly consider compara-
tive performance over a period of years in the past, say at least five,
provided the data do not represent a large net upward movement of
the market as a whole. In the latter case spectacularly favorable
results may be achieved in unorthodox waysas will be demon-
results in themselves may indicate only that the fund managers are
taking undue speculative risks, and getting away with same for the
time being.
"Performance" Funds
One of the new phenomena of recent years was the appearance
     d, g   go
funds (and even of many trust funds). We must start this section
   a  s t     
majority of well-established funds, but only to a relatively small
Investing in Investment Funds
233
section of the industry which has attracted a disproportionate
amount of attention. The story is simple enough. Some of those in
charge set out to get much better than average (or DjIA) results.
They succeeded in doing this for a while, garnering considerable
publicity and additional funds to manage. The aim was legitimate
enough; unfortunately, it appears that, in the context of investing
really sizable funds, the aim cannot be accomplished without
incurring sizable risks. And in a comparatively short time the risks
came home to roost.
Several of the circumstances surrounding the "performance"
phenomenon caused ominous headshaking by t
those of us whose
experience went far back--even to the 1920s-and whose views,
for that very reason, were considered old-fashioned and irrelevant
Aa st o pue 'aid psi a  ,erg man, (uas) s o
point, nearly all these brilliant performers were young men-in
their thirties and forties-whose direct financial experience was
limited to the all but continuous bull market of 1948-1968. Sec-
ondly, they often acted as if the definition of a "sound investment"
was a stock that was likely to have a good rise in the market in the
next few months. This led to large commitments in newer ventures
at prices completely disproportionate to their assets or recorded
hope in the future accomplishments of these enterprises with an
apparent shrewdness in exploiting the speculative enthusiasms of
the uninformed and greedy public.
This section will not mention people's names. But we have
every reason to give concrete examples of companies. The "perfor-
mance fund" most in the public's eye was undoubtedly Manhattan
Fund, Inc., organized at the end of 1965. Its first offering was of 27
million shares at $9.25 to $10 per share. The company started out
with $247 million of capital. Its emphasis was, of course, on capital
gains. Most of its funds were invested in issues selling at high mul-
ones), with a large speculative following and spectacular price
movements. The fund showed an overall
gain of 38.6% in 1967,
against 11% for the S & P composite index. But thereafter its perfor-
mance left much to be desired, as is shown in Table 9-2.
234
The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 9-2 A Performance-Fund Portfolio and Performance
(Larger Holdings of Manhattan Fund, December 31, 1969)
Shares
Market
Held
Earned
Dividend
Value
(thousands)
Issue
Price
1969
1969
(millions)
60
Teleprompter
99
$ .99
. none
$
6.0
190
Deltona
60%
2.32
none
11.5
280
Fedders
34
1.28
$.35
9.5
105
Horizon Corp.
53%
2.68
none
5.6
150
Rouse Co.
34
.07
none
5.1
130
Mattel Inc.
64%4
1.11
.20
8.4
120
Polaroid
125
1.90
.32
15.0
244a
Nat'l Student Mkt'g
28%
.32
none
6.1
56
Telex Corp.
90%
.68
none
5.0
100
Bausch & Lomb
77%
1.92
.80
7.8
190
Four Seasons Nursing
66
.80
none
12.3b
20
Int. Bus. Machines
365
8.21
3.60
7.3
41.5
Nat'l Cash Register
160
1.95
1.20
6.7
100
Saxon Ind.
109
3.81
none
10.9
105
Career Academy
50
.43
none
5.3
285
King Resources
28
.69
none
8.1
$130.6
Other common stocks
93.8
Other holdings
19.6
Total investmients $244.0
a After 2-for-1 split.
b Also $1.1 million of affiliated stocks.
* Excluding cash equivalents.
Annual Performance Compared with S & P Composite Index
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
Manhattan Fund
6
%
+38.6%
- 7.3%
-13.3%
-36.9%
+ 9.6%
S& P Composite
--10.1%
+23.0%
+10.4%
- 8.3%
+ 3.5%
+13.5%
Investing in Investment Funds
235
The portfolio of Manhattan Fund at the end of 1969 was
unorthodox to say the least. It is an extraordinary fact that two of
its largest investments were in companies that filed for bankruptcy
within six months thereafter, and a third faced creditors' actions in
