### 1971. It is another extraordinary fact that shares of at least one of

a n   n  s  g
funds but by university endowment funds, the trust departments
of large banking institutions, and the like.* A third extraordinary
fact was that the founder-manager of Manhattan Fund sold his
     s   
large concern for over $20 million in its stock; at that time the man-
agement company sold had less than $1 million in assets. This is
undoubtedly one of the greatest disparities of all times between the
results for the "manager" and the "managees."
A book published at the end of 1969² provided profiles of nine-
- u go aa upp a ae sdon are om,  
lions of dollars of other people's money." The summary told us
further that "they are young . . . some earn more than a million dol-
lars a year ... they are a new financial breed'.. . they all have a
total fascination with the market . . . and a spectacuiar knack for
       ,s   
ments of this top group can be obtained by examining the pub-
lished results of the funds they manage. Such results are available
for funds directed by twelve of the nineteen persons described in
The Money Managers. Typically enough, they showed up well in
 s         '
good in the aggregate, but mixed as to individual funds. In 1969
they all showed losses, with only one managing to do a bit better
than the S & P composite index. In 1970 their comparative perfor-
mance was even worse than in 1969.
* One of the "doomed companies" Graham refers to was National Student
Marketing Corp., a con game masquerading as a stock, whose saga was
told brilliantly in Andrew Tobias's The Funny Money Game (Playboy Press,
New York, 1971). Among the supposedly sophisticated investors who were
snookered by NSM's charismatic founder, Cort Randell, were the endow-
ment funds of Cornell and Harvard and the trust departments at such presti-
gious banks as Morgan Guaranty and Bankers Trust.
2.36
The Intelligent Investor
We have presented this picture in order to point a moral, which
perhaps can best be expressed by the old French proverb: Plus fa
change, plus c'est la meme chose. Bright, energetic people-usually
,  s d n  - 
people's money" since time immemorial. They have usually been
able to do it for a while-or at least to appear to have done it—-and
   n   sss   r 
 o e ,  l   e 
by flagrant manipulation, misleading corporate reporting, outra-
geous capitalization structures, and other semifraudulent financial
practices. All this brought on an elaborate system of financial con-
trols by the SEC, as well as a cautious attitude toward common
stocks on the part of the general public. The operations of the new
 o u  m e  h-n  ,s ,
generation after the shenanigans of 1926-1929.+ The specific mal-
practices banned after the 1929 crash were no longer resorted to--
they involved the risk of jail sentences. But in many corners of Wall
prices disappeared, but there were many other methods of draw-
ing the gullible public's attention to the profit possibilities in "hot"
quoted market price, subject to undisclosed restrictions on their
sale; they could immediately be carried in the reports at their full
market value, showing a lovely and illusory profit. And so on. It is
* As only the latest proof that "the more things change, the'more they stay
the Jacob Internet Fund at year-end 1999, after producing a 216% return at
his previous dot-com fund. Investors poured nearly $3o0 million into
Jacob's fund in the first few weeks of 2ooo. It then proceeded to lose
79.1% in 2000, 56.4% in 2001, and 13% in 2002-a cumulative collapse of
92%. That loss may have made Mr. Jacob's investors even older and wiser
than it made him.
+ Intriguingly, the disastrous boom and bust of 1999-2002 als0 came
roughly 35 years after the previous cycle of insanity. Perhaps it takes about
35 years for the investors who remember the last "New Economy" craze to
become less influential than those who do not. If this intuition is correct, the
intelligent investor should be particularly vigilant around the year 2030.
Investing in Investment Funds
237
  s      
and prohibitions, Wall Street was able to duplicate so much of the
excesses and errors of the 1920s.
No doubt there will be new regulations and new prohibitions.
The specific abuses of the late 1960s will be fairly adequately
banned from Wall Street. But it is probably too much to expect that
the urge to speculate will ever disappear, or that the exploitation of
that urge can ever be abolished. It is part of the armament of the
Delusions,"4 and to keep as far away from them as possible.
The picture of most of the performance funds is a poor one if we
start after their spectacular record in 1967. With the 1967 figures
included, their overall showing is not at all disastrous. On that
.basis one of "The Money Managers" operators did quite a bit better
than the S & P composite index, three did distinctly worse, and six
did about the same. Let us take as a check another group of perfor-
mance funds--the ten that made the best showing in 1967, with
gains ranging from 84% up to 301% in that single year. Of these,
 four gave a better overall four-year performance than the S & P
index, if the 1967 gains are included; and two excelled the index in
1968-1970. None of these funds was large, and the average size
was about $60 million. Thus, there is a strong indication that
smaller size is a necessary factor for obtaining continued outstand-
ing results.
The foregoing account contains the implicit conclusion that
there may be special risks involved in looking for superior perfor-
mance by investment-fund managers. All financial experience up
at best only slightly better than average results over the. years. If
they are unsoundly managed they can produce spectacular, but
largely illusory, profits for a while, followed inevitably by calami-
tous losses. There have been instances of funds that have consis-
tently outperformed the market averages for, say, ten years or
more. But these have been scarce exceptions, having most of their
operations in specialized fields, with self-imposed limits on the
capital employed--and not actively sold to the public.*
* Today's equivalent of Graham's "scarce exceptions" tend to be open-end
238
The Intelligent Investor
Closed-End versus Open-End Funds
Almost all the mutual funds or open-end funds, which offer
their holders the right to cash in their shares at each day's valua-
tion of the portfolio, have a corresponding machinery for selling
new shares. By this means most of them have grown in size over
the years. The closed-end companies, nearly all of which were
organized a long time ago, have a fixed capital structure, and thus
have diminished in relative dollar importance. Open-end compa-
nies are being sold by many thousands of energetic and persuasive
salesmen, the closed-end shares have no one especially interested
in distributing them. Consequently it has been possible to sell most
"mutual funds" to the public at a fixed premium of about 9%
above net asset value
e (to cover salesmen's commissions, etc.),
while the majority of close-end shares have been consistently
obtainable at less than their asset value. This price discount has var-
ied among individual companies, and the average discount for the
group as a whole has also varied from one date to another. Figures
on this point for 1961-1970 are given in Table 9-3.
It does not take much shrewdness to suspect that the lower rela-
 a s ss p  s    a
to do with the difference in the overall investment results between
the two groups. That this is true is' indicated by the comparison of
the annual results for 1961-1970 of the two groups included in
Tab1e 9-3.
Thus we arrive at one of the few clearly evident rules for
investors' choices. If you want to put money in investment funds,
buy a group of closed-end shares at a discount of, say, 10% to 15%
from asset value, instead of paying a premium of about 9% above
asset value for shares of an open-end company. Assuming that the
future dividends and changes in asset values continue to be about
the same for the two groups, you will thus obtain about one-fifth
more for your money from the closed-end shares.
The mutual-fund salesman will be quick to counter with the
stopped taking in any more cash. While that reduces the management fees
they can earn, it maximizes the returns their existing shareholders can earn.
Because most fund managers would rather look out for No. 1 than be No. 1,
closing a fund to new investors is a rare and courageous step.
Investing inInvestment Funds
239
TABLE 9-3
Certain Data on Closed-End Funds, Mutual
Funds, and S & P Composite Index
Average
Average
Average
Results
Discount
Results
of
Results
of
of
Mutual
of
Closed-End
Closed-End
Stock
S&P
Funds
Fundsa
Fundsb
Indexc
1970
 6%
even
- 5.3%
+ 3.5%
1969
- 7.9%
-12.5
-- 8.3
1968
p( +)
+13.3
+15.4
+10.4
1967
- 5
+28.2
+37.2
+23.0 .
1966
.-12
- 5.9
- 4.1
--10.1
1965
-14
+14.0
+24.8
+12.2
1964
-10
+16.9
+13.6
+14.8
1963
-8
+20.8
+19.3
+24.0
1962
4
-11.6
一
-14.6
- 8.7
1961
3
+23.6
+25.7
+27.0
Average of 10 yearly figures:
+ 9.14%
+ 9.95%
%64'6 +
 Wiesenberger average of ten diversified companies.
 Average of five Wiesenberger averages of common-stock funds each year.
* In all cases distributions are added back.
d Premium.
argument: "Ah, but if you own closed-end shares you can never be
sure what price you can sell them for. The discount can be greater
than it is today, and you will suffer from the wider spread. With
our shares you are guaranteed the right to turn in your shares at
100% of asset value, never less." Let us examine this argument a
bit; it will be a good exercise in logic and plain common sense.
Question: Assuming that the discount on closed-end shares does
widen, how likely is it that you will be worse off with those shares
than with an otherwise equivalent purchase of open-end shares?
This calls for a little arithmetic. Assume that Investor A buys
some open-end shares at 109% of asset value, and Investor B buys
closed-end shares at 85% thereof, plus 1%% commission. Both sets
of shares earn and pay 30% of this asset value in, say, four years,
240
The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 9-4A
Average Results of Diversified Closed-End
Funds, 1961-1970*
Premium or
Discount,
5 years,
December
1970
1966-1970
1961-1970
1970
Three funds selling
at premiums
-5.2%
+25.4%
+115.0%
11.4% premium
Ten funds selling
at discounts
+1.3
+22.6
+102.9
9.2% discount
a Data from Wiesenberger Financial Services.
and end up with the same value as at the beginning. Investor A
redeems his shares at 100% of value, losing the 9% premium he
paid. His overall return for the period is 30% less 9%, or 21% on
asset value. This, in turn, is 19% on his investment. How much
must Investor B realize on his closed-end shares to obtain the same
return on his investment as Investor A? The answer is 73%, or a
discount of 27% from asset value. In other words, the closed-end
man could suffer a widening of 12 points in the market discount
open-end investor. An adverse change of this magnitude has hap-
pened rarely, if ever, in the history of closed-end shares. Hence it is
very unlikely
that you will obtain a lower overall return from a
(representative) closed-end company, bought at a discount, if its
investment performance is about equal to that of a representative
mutual fund. If a small-load (or no-load) fund is substituted for
one with the usual "8%%" load, the advantage of the closed-end
investment is of course reduced, but it remains an advantage.
The fact that a few closed-end funds are selling at premiums
greater than the true 9% charge on most mutual funds introduces a
separate question for the investor. Do these premium companies
    s   s 
their elevated prices? If the answer'is sought in the comparative
results for the past five or ten years, the answer would appear to be
no. Three of the six premium companies have mainly foreign
investments. A striking feature of these is the large variation in
Investing in Investment Funds
241
TABLE 9-5
Comparison of Two Leading Closed-End
Companiesa
Premium or
Discount,
5 years,
10 years,
December
1970
1966-1970
1961-1970
1970
General Am.
Investors Co.
-0.3%
+34.0%
+165.6%
7.6% discount
Lehman Corp.
-7.2
+20.6
+108.0
13.9% premium
a Data from Wiesenberger Financial Services.
prices in a few years' time; at the end of 1970 one sold at only one-
quarter of its high, another at a third, another at less than half. If we
consider the three domestic companies selling above asset value,
we find that the average of their ten-year overall returns was some-
what better than that of ten discount funds, but the opposite.was
true in the last five years. A comparison of the 1961-1970 record of
Lehman Corp. and of General American Investors, two of our old-
est and largest closed-end companies, is given in Table 9-5. One of
these sold 14% above and the other 7.6% below its net-asset value
at the end of 1970. The difference in price to net-asset relationships
did not appear warranted by these figures.
Investment in Balanced Funds
The 23 balanced funds covered in the Wiesenberger Report had
between 25% and 59% of their assets in preferred stocks and bonds,
the average being just 40%. The balance was held in common
  i  e      
make his bond-type investments directly, rather than to have them
form part of a mutual-fund commitment. The average income
return shown by these balanced funds in 1970 was only 3.9% per
annum on asset value, or say 3.6% on the offering price. The better
choice for the bond component would be the purchase of United
States savings bonds, or corporate bonds rated A or better, or tax-
free bonds, for the investor's bond portfolio.
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 9
The schoolteacher asks Billy Bob: "lf you have twelve
sheep and one jumps over the fence, how many sheep do
you have left?"
Billy Bob answers, "None.
"Well,' says the teacher, "you sure don't know your
subtraction."
"Maybe not," Billy Bob replies, "but I darn sure know
my sheep."
-an old Texas joke
Almost perfecT
A purely American creation, the mutual fund was introduced in 1924
by a former salesman of aluminum pots and pans named Edward G.
Leffler. Mutual funds are quite cheap, very convenient, generally diver-
sified, professionally managed, and tightly regulated under some of
the toughest provisions of Federal securities law. By making investing
54 million American families (and millions more around the world) into
the investing mainstream-probably the greatest advance in financial
democracy ever achieved.
But mutual funds aren't perfect; they are almost perfect, and that
word makes al the difference. Because of their imperfections, most
funds underperform the market, overcharge their investors, create tax
headaches, and suffer erratic swings in performance. The intelligent
investor must choose funds with great care in order to avoid ending
up owning a big fat mess.
242
Commentary on Chapter 9
243
Top of the charts
Most investors simply buy a fund that has been going up fast, on the
ssibolouoisd 5iou Xym puy -buioe uo daax lm 1! pey uondwnsse
have shown that humans have an inborn tendency to believe.that the
long run can be predicted from even a short series of outcomes.
What's more, we know from our own experience that some plumbers
are far better than others, that some baseball players are much more
likely to hit home runs, that our favorite restaurant serves consistently
and brains and hard work are recognized, rewarded--and consistently
repeated-all around us. So, if a fund beats the market, our intuition
tells us to expect it to keep right on outperforming.
Unfortunately, in the financial markets, luck is more important than
skill. lf a manager happens to be in the right corner of the market at
loy sem teym 'uao oot lie inq-luela yool lm ay 'aw!l lub au isn!
suddenly goes cold and the manager's IQ seems to shrivel by 50
points. Figure 9-1 shows what happened to the hottest funds of 1999.
This is yet another reminder that the market's hottest market sec-
tor-in 1999, that was technology-often turns as cold as liquid nitro-
gen, with blinding speed and utterly no warning.' And it's a reminder
that buying funds based purely on their past performance is one of the
stupidest things an investor can do. Financial scholars have been
studying mutual-fund performance for at least a half century, and they
are virtually unanimous on several points:
the average fund does not pick stocks well enough to overcome
its costs of researching and trading them;
the higher a fund's expenses, the lower its returns;
the more frequently a fund trades its stocks, the less it tends to
earn;
1 Sector funds specializing in almost every imaginable industry are avail-
able-and date back to the 1920s. After nearly 80 years of history, the evi-
dence is overwhelming: The most lucrative, and thus most popular, sector of
any given year often turns out to be among the worst performers of the fol-
investor's nemesis.
invested on
 of $10,000
Value on
12/31/02
1/1/1999
4,419
3,756
4,175
4,198
2,907
829
3,029
7,015
6,217
7,327
084'2
2002
-64.6
-51.2
-31.0
-54.5
-67.3
-69.4
-65.8
-31.0
-54.8
-40.9
-20.8
2001
-59.7
-52.2
-50.8
-52.4
-62.1
--69.1
-61.9
-26.1
--29.1
-40.0
-11.0
Total Return
2000
-20.9
-56.9
--64.8
43.7
-30.3
-73.7
-28.1
-56.0
629-
-10.9
1999
291.2
273.1
248.9
243.9
237.2
233.2
223.8
213.2
212.3
211.6
23.8
FIGURE 9-1 The Crash-and-Burn Club
PBHG Technology & Communications
Wilshire 5000 index (total stock market)
Firsthand Technology Innovators
Van Wagoner Emerging Growth
Van Wagoner Post-Venture
Van Wagoner Technology
Janus Global Technology
Amerindo Technology
ProFunds Ultra OTC
Monument Internet
Thurlow Growth
Source: Lipper
Fund
Commentary on Chapter 9
245
-ae ueui aou umop pue dn aounoa yoym 'spuny aeios Kiyey
age, are likely to stay volatile;
funds with high past returns are unlikely to remain winners for
long.2
Your chances of selecting the top-performing funds of the future on
the basis of their returns in the past are about as high as the odds that
Bigfoot and the Abominable Snowman will both show up in pink ballet
slippers at your next cocktail party. In other words, your chances are.
not zero-but they're pretty close. (See sidebar, p. 255.)
But there's good news, too. First of all, understanding why it's so
hard to find a good fund will help you become a more intelligent
investor. Second, while past performance is a poor predictor of future
of finding a good fund. Finally, a fund can offer excellent value even if it
doesn't beat the market-by providing an economical way to diversify
your holdings and by freeing up your time for all the other things you
would rather be doing than picking your own stocks.
The first shall be last
Why don't more winning funds stay winners?
The better a fund performs, the more obstacles its investors face:
Migrating managers. When a stock picker seems to have the
Midas touch, everyone wants him-including rival fund companies.
If you bought Transamerica Premier Equity Fund to cash in on the
skills of Glen Bickerstaff, who gained 47.5%o in 1997, you were quickly
out of luck; TCW snatched him away in mid-1998·to run its TCW
Galileo Select Equities Fund, and the Transamerica fund lagged
the market in three' of the next four years. If you bought Fidelity
Aggressive Growth Fund in early 20o0 to capitalize on the high
returns of Erin Sullivan, who had nearly tripled her shareholders'
money since 1997, oh well: She quit to start her own hedge fund in
2 The research on mutual fund performance is too voluminous to cite. Useful
www.stanford.edu/ ~wfsharpe/art/art.htm.
246
Commentary on Chapter 9
200o, and her former fund lost more than three-quarters of its value
over the next three years.?
Asset elephantiasis. When a fund earns high returns, investors
notice-often pouring in hundreds of millions of dollars in a matter of
weeks. That leaves the fund manager with few choices-all of them
bad. He can keep that money safe for a rainy day, but then the low
returns on cash will crimp the fund's results if stocks keep going up.
He can put the new money into the stocks he already owns-which
have probably gone up since he first bought them and will become
dangerously overvalued if he pumps in millions of dollars more. Or he
can buy new stocks he didn't like well enough to own already-but he
will have to research them from scratch and keep an eye on far more
companies than he is used to following.
Finally, when the $100-million Nimble Fund puts 2% of its assets
(or $2 million) in Minnow Corp., a stock with a total market value of
$500 million, it's buying up less than one-half of 1% of Minnow. But if 
hot performance swells the Nimble Fund to $10 billion, then an invest-
ment of 2% of its assets would total $2o0 million-nearly half the
entire value of Minnow, a level of ownership that isn't even permissible
under Federal law. lf Nimble's portfolio manager still wants to own
small stocks, he will have to spread his money over vastly more com-
panies-and probably end up spreading his attention too thin.
No more fancy footwork. Some companies specialize in "incubat-
licly. (Typicaily, the only shareholders are employees and affiliates of
the fund company itself.) By keeping
them tiny, the sponsor can use
these incubated funds as guinea pigs
for risky
/ strategies that work
best with small sums of money, like buying truly tiny stocks or rapid-fire
trading of initial public offerings. If its strategy succeeds, the fund can
 lure public investors en masse by publicizing its private returns. In
other cases, the fund manager "waives" (or skips charging) manage-
ment fees, raising the net return-then slaps the fees on later after the
high returns attract plenty of customers. Almost without exception, the
returns of incubated and fee-waived funds have faded into mediocrity
after outside investors poured millions of dollars into them.
adns, jaut j! aeg auop aaey pinom spuny asaui teui Aes di iou s,leul e
star" managers had stayed in place; all we can be sure of is that the two
funds did poorly without them.
Commentary on Chapter 9
247
Rising expenses. It often costs more to trade stocks in very large
blocks than in small ones; with fewer buyers and sellers, it's harder to
make a match. A fund with $100 million in assets might pay 1%o a year
in trading costs. But, if high returns send the fund mushrooming up to
$10 billion, its trades could easily eat up at least 2% of those assets.
The typical fund holds on to its stocks for only 11 months at a time, s0
trading costs eat away at returns like a corrosive acid. Meanwhile, the
other costs of running a fund rarely fall-and sometimes even rise-as
assets grow. With operating expenses averaging 1.5%o, and trading
costs at around 2%, the typical fund has to beat the market by 3.5
percentage points per year before costs just to match it after costs!
Sheepish behavior. Finally, once a fund becomes successful, its
managers tend to become timid and imitative. As a fund grows, its
fees become more lucrative-making its managers reluctant to rock
the boat. The very risks that the managers took to generate their initial
high returns could now drive investors away-and jeopardize all that fat
fee income. So the biggest funds resemble a herd of identical and
le "eeeeg, bui4es lie 'daisyool ys!benjs u! buisow lle 'deays paao
the same time. Nearly every growth fund owns Cisco and GE and
Microsoft and Pfizer and Wal-Mart-and in almost identical propor-
tions. This behavior is so prevalent that finance scholars simply call it
herding.* But by protecting their own fee income, fund managers com-
promise their ability to produce superior returns for their outside
investors.
4 There's a second lesson here: To succeed, the individual investor must
either avoid shopping from the same list of favorite stocks that have already
been picked over by the giant institutions, or own them far more patiently.
See Erik R. Sirri and Peter Tufano, "Costly Search and Mutual Fund Flows,"
The Journal of Finance, vol. 53, no. 8, October, 1998, pp. 1589-1622;
Keith C. Brown, W. V. Harlow, and Laura Starks, “Of Tournaments and
Temptations, The Journal of Finance, vol. 51, no. 1, March, 1996, pp.
85-110; Josef Lakonishok, Andrei Shleifer, and Robert Vishny, "What Do
Money Managers Do?" working paper, University of llinois, February, 1997;
Stanley Eakins, Stanley Stansell, and Paul Wertheim, "lnstitutional Portfolio
Composition, Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance, vol. 38, no. 1,
Spring, 1998, pp. 93-110; Paul Gompers and Andrew Metrick, “Institu-
tional Investors and Equity Prices" The Quarterly Journa/ of Economics, vol.
116, no. 1, February, 2001, pp. 229-260.
248
Commentary on Chapter 9
FIGURE 9-2 The Funnel of Fund Performance
Looking back from December 31, 2002, how many U.S. stock
funds outperformed Vanguard 500 Index Fund?
One year:
1,186 of 2,423 funds (or 48.9%)
Three years:
1,157 of 1,944 funds (or 59.5%)
Five years:
768 of 1,494 funds (or 51.4%)
Ten years:
227 of 728 funds (or 31.2%)
Fifteen years:
125 of 445 funds (or 28.1%)
Twenty years:
37 of 248 funds (or 14.9%)
Source: Lipper Inc.
Because of their fat costs and bad behavior, most funds fail to earn
their keep. No wonder high returns are nearly as perishable as unre-
frigerated fish. What's more, as time passes, the drag of their exces-
sive expenses leaves most funds farther and farther behind, as Figure
9.2 shows.5
What, then, should the intelligent investor do?
First of all, recognize that an index fund-which owns all the stocks
6 Amazingly, this illustration understates the advantage of index funds, since
the database from which it is taken does not include the track records of
hundreds of funds that disappeared over these periods. Measured more
accurately, the advantage of indexing would be overpowering.
Commentary on Chapter 9
249
in the market, all the time, without any pretense of being able to select
buol aui saso spuny ssow peag lm-,isiom, aue piose pue isag, aut
run. (lf your company doesn't offer a low-cost index fund in your
401(k), organize your coworkers and petition to have one added.) Its
rock-bottom overhead-operating expenses of 0.2% annually, and
yearly trading costs of just 0.1%-give the index fund an insurmount-
able advantage. lf stocks generate, say, a 7% annualized return over
the next 20 years, a low-cost index fund like Vanguard Total Stock
Market will return just under 6.7%. (That would turn a $10,000 invest-
ment into more than $36,000.) But the average stock fund, with
its 1.5% in operating expenses and roughly 2% in trading costs, will
be lucky to gain 3.5% annually. (That would turn $10,000 into just
under $20,000-or nearly 50% less than the result from the index
fund.)
Index funds have only one significant flaw: They are boring. You'll
never be able to go to a barbecue and brag about how you own the
you beat the market, because the job of an index fund is to match the
market's return, not to exceed it. Your index-fund manager is not likely
to "roll the dice" and gamble that the next great industry will be tele-
portation, or scratch-'n'-sniff websites, or telepathic weight-loss clin-
ics; the fund will always own every stock, not just one manager's best
guess at the next new thing. But, as the years pass, the cost advan-
tage of indexing will keep accruing relentlessly. Hold an index fund for
a lie ae nor pue 'yuaw Aasa Kuo mau buppe 'aow no sas o
certain to outperform the vast majority
of professional and individual
investors alike. Late in his life, Graham praised index funds as the best
choice for individual investors, as does Warren Buffett.?
e See Benjamin Graham, Benjamin Graham: Memoirs of the Dean of Wall
Street, Seymour Chatman, ed. (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1996), p. 273, and
Janet Lowe, The Rediscovered Benjamin Graham: Selected Writings of the
Wall Street Legend (john Wiley & Sons, New York, 1999), p. 273. As War-
ren Buffett wrote in his 1996 annual report: *Most investors, both institu-
tional and individual, will find that the best way to own common stocks is
d sun buimolo, asoul saat ewuw sabieyo jeun puny xapus ue ybnou
are sure to beat the net results (after fees and expenses) delivered by the
great majority of investment professionals" (See www.berkshirehathaway.
com/1996ar/1996.html.)
250
Commentary on Chapter 9
Tilting tHe tableS
When you add up all their handicaps, the wonder is not that so few
funds beat the index, but that any do. And yet, some do. What quali-
"ties do they have in common?
Their managers are the biggest shareholders. The conflict of
interest between what's best for the fund's managers and what's best
for its investors is mitigated when the managers are among the
biggest owners of the fund's shares. Some firms, like Longleaf Part-
funds. At Longleaf and other firms like Davis and FPA, the managers
Xuow jnon abeu ot Aiyl ae Aut tel spuny aul jo yn os umo
as if it were their own--lowering the odds that they will jack up fees, let
the funds swell to gargantuan size, or whack you with a nasty tax bill. A
fund's proxy statement and Statement of Additional Information, both
available from the Securities and Exchange Commission through the
EDGAR database at www.sec.gov, disclose whether the managers
own at least 1%o of the fund's shares.
They are cheap. One of the most common myths in the fund busi-
psaq aut ane suna ybiy teui-,dof Aed nos peym jah nok, teu s! ssau
ment. First, it isn't true; decades of research have proven that funds
with higher fees earn lower returns over time. Secondly, high returns
are temporary, while high fees are nearly as permanent as granite. lf
you buy a fund for its hot returns, you may well end up with a handful
of cold ashes-but your costs of owning the fund are almost certain
not to decline when its returns do.
They dare to be different When Peter Lynch ran Fidelity Magellan, he
bought whatever seemed cheap to him-regardless of what other fund
managers owned. In 1982, his biggest investment was Treasury bonds;
right after that, he made Chrysler his top holding, even though most
almost 20% of Fidelity Magellan in foreign stocks like Honda, Norsk
Hydro, and Volvo. So, before you buy a U.S. stock fund, compare the hold-
ings listed in its latest report against the roster of the S & P 5o0 index; if
they look like Tweedledee and Tweedledum, shop for another fund.?
7 A complete listing of the S & P 5o0's constituent companies is available at
www.standardandpoors.com.
Commentary on Chapter 9
251
They shut the door. The best funds often close to new investors-
permitting only their existing shareholders to buy more. That stops the
feeding frenzy of new buyers who want to pile in at the top and pro-
tects the fund from the pains of asset elephantiasis. It's also a signal
that the fund managers are not putting their own wallets ahead of
yours. But the closing should occur before-not after-the fund
explodes in size: Some companies with an exemplary record of shut-
ting their own gates are Longleaf, Numeric, Oakmark, T. Rowe Price,
Vanguard, and Wasatch.
They don't advertise. Just as Plato says in The Republic that the ideal
rulers are those who do not want to govern, the best fund managers often
behave as if they don't want your money. They don't appear constantly on
financial television or run ads boasting of their No. 1 returns. The steady lit-
tle Mairs & Power Growth Fund didn't even have a website until 2o01 and
still sells its shares in only 24 states. The Torray Fuind has never run a retail
advertisement since its launch in 1990.
sed pe yooi siarna puny so 2ioy yem no pinous ale jeum
-   e sda s e   s 
ness of the fund, and finally (if ever) at the fund's expenses."
The intelligent investor looks at those same things-but in the oppo-
site order.
Since a fund's expenses are far more predictable than its future risk
or return, you should make them your first filter. There's no good rea-
son ever to pay more than these levels of annual operating expenses,
by fund category:
Taxable and municipal bonds:
0.75%
U.S. equities (large and mid-sized stocks) :
1.0%
High-yield (junk) bonds:
1.0%
: See Noel Capon, Gavan Fitzsimons, and Russ Alan Prince, "An Individual
Level Analysis of the Mutual Fund Investment Decision," Journal of Finan-
cial Services Research, vol. 10, 1996, pp. 59-82; Investment Company
Institute, "Understanding Shareholders' Use of Information and Advisers"
Spring, 1997, at www.ici.org/pdf/rpt_undstnd_share.pdf, p. 21; Gordon
Alexander, Jonathan Jones, and Peter Nigro, "Mutual Fund Shareholders:
Characteristics, Investor Knowledge, and Sources of Information, OCC
working paper, December, 1997, at www.occ.treas.gov/ftp/workpaper/
wp97-13.pdf.
252
Commentary on Chapter 9
U.S. equities (small stocks):
1.25%
Foreign stocks:
1.50%9
Next, evaluate risk. In its prospectus (or buyer's guide), every fund
must show a bar graph displaying its worst loss over a calendar quar-
ter. If you can't stand losing at least that much money in three months,
go elsewhere. It's also worth checking a fund's Morningstar rating. A
leading investment research firm, Morningstar awards "star ratings" to
funds, based on how much risk they took to earn their returns (one
star is the worst, five is the best). But, just like past performance itself,
 am sn m nos    u o yoo s ais
best, not which are going to be. Five-star funds, in fact, have a discon-
certing habit of going on to underperform one-star funds. So first find
a low-cost fund whose managers are major shareholders, dare to be
different, don't hype their returns, and have shown a wilingness to
shut down before they get too big for their.britches. Then, and only
then, consult their Morningstar rating.10
Finally, look at past performance, remembering that it is only a pale
predictor of future returns. As we've already seen, yesterday's winners
often become tomorrow's losers. But researchers have shown that
one thing is almost certain: Yesterday's losers aimost never become
tomorrow's winners. So avoid funds with consistently poor past
The closed World OF
Closed-end fuNds
Closed-end stock funds, although popular during the 1980s, have
slowly atrophied. Today, there are only 30 diversified domestic
9 Investors can search easily for funds that meet these expense hurdles by
using the fund-screening tools at www.morningstar.com and http://money.
cnn.com.
10 See Matthew Morey, "Rating the Raters: An Investigation of Mutual Fund
Rating Services" Journal of Investment Consulting, vol.5, no. 2, November/
December, 2002. While its star ratings are a weak predictor of future
results, Morningstar is the single best source of information on funds for
individual investors.
Commentary on Chapter 9
253
equity funds, many of them tiny, trading only a few hundred shares
Shares, which specializes in the stocks of “habit-forming" industries
like booze, casinos, and cigarettes). Research by closed-end fund
expert Donald Cassidy of Lipper Inc. reinforces Graham's earlier
observations: Diversified closed-end stock funds trading at a discount
not only tend to outperform those trading at a premium but are likely
to have a better return than the average open-end mutual fund.
Sadly, however, diversified closed-end stock funds are not always
available at a discount in what has become a dusty, dwindling
market.11
But there are hundreds of closed-end bond funds, with especially
strong choices available in the municipal-bond area. When these
funds trade at a discount, their yield is amplified and they can be
attractive, so long as their annual expenses are below the threshoids
listed above.1?
The new breed of exchange-traded index funds can be worth
exploring as well. These low-cost "ETFs" sometimes offer the only
means by which an investor can gain entrée to a narrow market like,
say, :companies based in Belgium or stocks in the semiconductor
industry. Other index ETFs offer much broader market exposure. How-
ever, they are generally not suitable for investors who wish to add
money regularly, since most brokers will charge a separate commis-
sion on every new investment you make.13
11 Unlike a mutual fund, a closed-end fund does not issue new shares
directly to anyone who wants to buy them. Instead, an investor must buy
shares not from the fund itself, but from another shareholder who is willing
to part with them. Thus, the price of the shares fluctuates above and below
their net asset value, depending on supply and demand.
12 For more information, see www.morningstar.com and www.etfconnect.
com.
13 Unlike index mutual funds, index ETFs are subject to standard stock com-
assessed on any additional purchases or reinvested dividends. Details are
available at www.ishares.com, www.streettracks.com, www.amex.com, and
www.indexfunds.com.
254
Commentary on Chapter 9
Know when to fold 'em
Once you own a fund, how can you tell when it's time to sell?
The standard advice is to ditch a fund if it underperforms the market
(or similar portfolios) for one-or is it two?-or is it three?-years in
a row. But this advice makes no sense. From its birth in 1970
through 1999, the Sequoia Fund underperformed the S & P 500
index in 12 out of its 29 years-or more than 41% of the time. Yet
Sequoia gained more than 12,500% over that period, versus 4,900%
for the index.14
The performance of most funds falters simply because the type of
stocks they prefer temporarily goes out of favor. if you hired a manager
to invest in a particular way, why fire him for doing what he promised?
By selling when a style of investing is out of fashion, you not only lock
in a loss but lock yourself out of the all-but-inevitable recovery. One
study. showed that mutual-fund investors underperformed their own
funds by 4.7 percentage points annually from 1998 through 2001-
simply by buying high and selling low.15
So when should you sell? Here a few definite red flags:
a sharp and unexpected change in strategy, such as a "value'
fund loading up on technology stocks in 1999 or a "growth" fund
buying tons of insurance stocks in 2o02;
ul sre shabeuw aue seu bujsabhns 'sasuadxa ui aseaiou! ue
ing their own pockets;
large and frequent tax bills generated by excessive trading;
suddenly erratic returns, as when a formerly conservative fund
generates a big loss (or even produces a giant gain).
14 See Sequoia's June 30, 1999, report to shareholders at www.sequoia
fund.com/Reports/Quarterly/SemiAnn99.htm. Sequoia has been closed to
new investors since 1982, which has reinforced its superb performance.
'aunr Kauow tmouy oi paan Aieey sloisaau puns teum, 'biamz uosef a
2002, pp. 110-115.
Why we love our oulja boards
Believing-or even just hoping-that we can pick the best funds
of the future makes us feel better. It gives us the pleasing sensa-
tion that we are in charge of our own investment destiny. This
"'m-in-control-here" feeling is part of the human condition; it's
what psychologists call overconfidence. Here are just a few
examples of how it works:
 In 1999, Money Magazine asked more than 500 people
whether their portfolios had beaten the market. One in four
said yes. When asked to specify their returns, however, 80%
of those investors reported gains /ower than the market's.
(Four percent had no idea how much their portfolios rose-
but were sure they had beaten the market anyway!)
 A Swedish study asked drivers who had been in severe car
crashes to rate their own skills behind the wheel. These peo-
ple-including some the police had found responsible for the
accidents and others who had been so badly injured that
they answered the survey from their hospital beds-insisted
they were better-than-average drivers.
In a poll taken in late 2ooo, Time and CNN asked more than
1,00o likely voters whether they thought they were in the top
1% of the population by income. Nineteen percent placed
themselves among the richest 1% of Americans.
 In late 1997, a survey of 750 investors found that 74%
believed their mutual-fund holdings would "consistently beat
the Standard & Poor's 5o0 each year"-even though most
funds fail to beat the S & P 500 in the long run and many fail
to beat it in any year.'
While this kind of optimism is a normal sign of a healthy psy-
che, that doesn't make it good investment policy. It makes sense
to believe you can predict something only if it actually is pre-
dictable. Unless you are realistic, your quest for self-esteem will
end up in self-defeat.
1 See Jason' Zweig, "Did You Beat the Market?" Money, January, 2o00, pp.
55-58; Time/CNN poll #15, October 25-26, 2000, question 29.
·256
Commentary on Chapter 9
As the investment consultant Charles Eilis puts it, "lf you're not pre-
pared to stay married, you shouldn't get married" 16 Fund investing is
no different. If you're not prepared to stick with a fund through at least
three lean years, you shouldn't buy it in the first place. Patience is the
fund investor's single most powerful ally.
Money, June, 2001, pp. 49-52.
