### 3. Property Value. The asset values, as shown on the balance sheet

or as appraised, were formerly considered the chief security and
   or sr xg nss p e  
cases safety resides in the earning power, and if this is deficient the
assets lose most of their reputed value. Asset values, however,
retain importance as a separate test of ample security for bonds
and preferred stocks in three enterprise groups: public utilities
(because rates may depend largely
 ont
the property investment),
real-estate concerns, and investment companies.
At this point the alert investor should ask, "How dependable are
tests of safety that are measured by past and present performance,
in view of the fact that payment of interest and principal depends
upon what the future will bring forth?" The answer can be founded
* By "junior stock issues" Graham means shares of common stock. Pre-
must pay all dividends on the preferred before paying any dividends on the
common.
286
TheIntelligent Investor
only on experience. Investment history shows that bonds and pre-
ferred stocks that have met stringent tests of safety, based on the
past, have in the great majority of cases been able to face the vicissi-
tudes of the future successfully. This has been strikingly demon-
strated in the major field of railroad bonds-a field that has been
marked by a calamitous frequency of bankruptcies and serious
losses. In nearly every case the roads that got into trouble had long
  ao np  as p ao 
charges in periods of average prosperity, and would thus have been
ruled out by investors who applied strict tests of safety. Conversely.
practically every road that has met such tests has escaped financial
     d  ss
financial history of the numerous railroads reorganized in the 1940s
and in 1950. All of these, with one exception, started their careers
with fixed charges reduced to a point where the current coverage of
fixed-interest requirements was ample, or at least respectable. The
exception was the New Haven Railroad, which in its reorganization
year, 1947, earned its new charges only about 1.1 times. In conse-
quence, while all the other roads were able to come through rather
difficult times with solvency unimpaired, the New Haven relapsed
into trusteeship (for the third time) in 1961.
In Chapter 17 below we shall consider some aspects of the bank-
ruptcy of the Penn Central Railroad, which shook the financial
community in 1970. An elementary fact in this case was that the
coverage of fixed charges did not meet conservative standards as
early as 1965; hence a prudent bond investor would have avoided
or disposed of the bond issues of the system long before its finan-
cial collapse.
Our observations on the adequacy of the past record to judge
future safety apply, and to an even greater degree, to the public
utilities, which constitute a major area for bond investment.
Receivership of a soundly capitalized (electric) utility company or
system is almost impossible. Since Securities and Exchange (
uo
mission control was instituted,* along with the breakup of most of
* After investors lost billions of dollars on the shares of recklessly assem-
bled utility companies in 1929-1932, Congress authorized the SEC to reg-
ulate the issuance of utility stocks under the Public Utility Holding Company
Act of 1935.
Secirity Analysis for the Lay Investor
287
the holding-company systems, public-utility financing has been
sound and bankruptcies unknown. The financial troubles of elec-
tric and gas utilities in the 1930s were traceable almost 100% to
financial excesses and mismanagement, which left their imprint
clearly on the companies' capitalization structures. Simple but
stringent tests of safety, therefore, would have warned the investor
away from the issues that were later to default.
Among industrial bond issues the long-term record has been
different. Although the industrial group as a whole has shown a
better growth of earning power than either the railroads or the util-
ities, it has revealed a lesser degree of inherent stability for individ-
ual companies and lines of business. Thus in the past, at least, there
have been persuasive reasons for confining the purchase of indus-
trial bonds and preferred stocks to companies that not only are of
major size but also have shown an ability in the past to. withstand a
serious depression.
Few defaults of industrial bonds have occurred since 1950, but
this fact is attributable in part to the absence of a major depression
during this long period. Since 1966 there have been adverse devel-
opments in the financial position of many industrial companies.
Considerable difficulties have developed as the result of unwise
expansion. On the one hand this has involved large additions to
both bank loans and long-term debt; on the other it has frequently
beginning of 1971 it was calculated that in the past seven years the
interest payments of all nonfinancial firms had grown from $9.8
billion in 1963 to $26.1 billion in 1970, and that interest payments
had taken 29% of the aggregate profits before interest and taxes in
1971, against only 16% in 1963. Obviously, the burden on many
individual firms had increased much more than this. Overbonded
companies have become all too familiar. There is every reason to
repeat the caution expressed in our 1965 edition:
We are not quite ready to suggest that the investor may count
on an indefinite continuance of this favorable situation, and hence
relax his standards of bond selection in the industrial or any other
group.
288
The Intelligent Investor
Common-Stock Analysis
The ideal form of common-stock analysis leads to a valuation of
the issue which can be compared with the current price to deter-
mine whether or not the security is an attractive purchase. This val-
uation, in turn, would
d ordinarily be found by estimating the
  e a  e sa g p e rao sa 
tiplying that estimate by
an appropriate "capitalization factor."
The now-standard  procedure  for estimating
 future earning
power starts with average past data for physical volume, prices
received, and operating margin. Future sales in dollars are then
projected on the basis of assumptions as to the amount of change in
volume and price level over the previous base. These estimates, in
turn, are grounded first on general economic forecasts of gross
national product, and then on special calculations applicable to the
industry and company in question.
An illustration of this method of valuation may be taken from
our 1965 edition and brought up to date by adding t
the sequel. The
Value Line, a leading investment service, makes forecasts of future
earnings and dividends by the procedure outlined above, and then
derives a figure of "price potentiality" (or projected market value)
by applying a valuation formula to each issue based largely on cer-
tain past relationships. In Table 11-2 we reproduce the projections
for 1967-1969 made in June 1964, and compare them with the earn-
       a  ss
approximates the 1967-1969 period).
The combined forecasts proved to be somewhat on the low side,
but not seriously so. The corresponding predictions made six years
before had turned out to be overoptimistic on earnings and divi-
dends; but this had been offset by use of a low multiplier, with the
a ne a  pad  ad d, a r tsg
same as the actual average price for 1963.
The reader will note that quite a number of the individual fore-
casts were wide of the mark. This is an instance in support of our
general view that composite or group estimates are likely to be a
good deal more dependable than those for individual companies.
Ideally, perhaps, the security analyst should pick out. the three or
four companies whose future he thinks he knows the best, and con-
centrate his own and his clients' interest on what he forecasts for
Security Analysis for the Lay Investor
289
TABLE 11-2
2 The Dow Jones Industrial Average
(The Value Line's Forecast for 1967-1969 (Made in Mid-1964) Compared
With Actual Results in 1968)
Earnings
Price
Price
Average
Forecast
Actual
June 30
Forecast
Price
1967-1969
1968a
1964
1967-1969
1968a
Allied Chemical
$3.70
$1.46
54%
67
36%
Aluminum Corp. of Am.
3.85
4.75
71%
85
79
American Can
3.50
4.25
47
57
48
American Tel. & Tel.
4.00
3.75
73%
68
53
American Tobacco
3.00
4.38
51%
33
37
Anaconda
6.00
8.12
44%
70
106
Bethlehem Steel
3.25
3.55
36%.
45
31
Chrysler
4.75
6.23
48%
45
60
Du Pont
8.50
7.82
253
240
163
Eastman Kodak
5.00
9.32
133
100
320
General Electric
4.50
3.95
80~
90
90%
General Foods
4.70
4.16
88
71
84%
General Motors
6.25
6.02
88
78
81%
Goodyear Tire
3.25
4.12
43
43
54
Internat. Harvester
5.75
5.38
82
63
69
Internat. Nickel
5.20
3.86
79
83
76
Internat. Paper
2.25
2.04
32
36
33
Johns Manville
4.00
4.78
57%
54
71%
Owens-Il. Glass
5.25
6.20
99
100
125%
Procter & Gamble
4.20
4.30
83
70
91
Sears Roebuck
4.70
5.46
118
78
122%
Standard Oil of Cal.
5.25
5.59
64%
60
67
Standard Oil of N.J.
6.00
5.94
87
73
76
Swift & Co.
3.85
3.41b
54
50
57
Texaco
5.50
6.04
79%
70
81
Union Carbide
7.35
5.20
126%
165
90
United Aircraft
4.00
7.65
49%
50
106
U.S. Steel
4.50
4.69
57%
60
42
Westinghouse Elec.
3.25
3.49
30%
50
69
Woolworth
2.25
2.29
29%
32
29%
Total
138.25
149.20
2222
2186
2450
DJIA (Total % 2.67)
52.00
56.00
832
820
918c
DJIA Actual 1968
57.89
5906
DJIA Actual 1967-1969
56.26
a Adjusted for stock-splits since 1964.
b Average 1967-1969.
* Difference due to changed divisor.
290
The Intelligent Investor
them. Unfortunately, it appears to be almost impossible to distin-
guish in advance between those individual forecasts which can be
relied upon and those which are subject to a large chance of error.
At bottom, this is the reason for the wide diversification practiced
by the investment funds. For it is undoubtedly better to concen-
trate on one stock that you know is going to prove highly profitable.
rather than dilute your results to a mediocre figure, merely for
diversification's sake. But this is not done, because it cannot be
done dependably.* The prevalence of wide diversification is in itself
Street constantly pays lip service.*
Factors Affecting the Capitalization Rate
Though average future earnings are supposed to be the chief
determinant of value, the security analyst takes into account a
number of other factors of a more or less definite nature. Most of
these will enter into his capitalization rate, which can vary over a
wide range, depending upon the "quality" of the stock issue. Thus,
although two companies may have the same figure of expected
the Standard & Poor's 5o0-stock index, lest any different holdings cause
their returns to deviate from that of the index. In a countertrend, some fund
companies have launched what they cafl "focused" portfolios, which own 25
to 50 stocks that the managers declare to be their "best ideas." That leaves
investors wondering whether the other funds run by the same managers
contain their worst ideas. Considering that most of the "best idea" funds do
not markedly outperform the averages, investors are also entitled to wonder
whether the managers' ideas are even worth having in the first place. For
indisputably skilled investors like Warren Buffett, wide diversification would
be foolish, since it would water down the concentrated force of a few great
ideas. But for the typical fund manager or individual investor, not diversifying
is foolish, since it is so difficult to select a limited number of stocks that will
include most winners and exclude most losers. As you own more stocks, the
damage any single loser can cause will decline, and the odds of owning all
market index fund, a low-cost way to hold every stock worth owning.
Security Analysis for the Lay Investor
291
earnings per share in 1973-1975—say $4-the analyst may value
one as low as 40 and the other as high as 100. Let us deai briefly
with some of the considerations that enter into these divergent
multipliers.
