### 2. Management. On Wall Street a great deal is constantly said on

this subject, but little that is really helpful. Until objective, quantita-
tive, and reasonably reliable tests of managerial competence are
devised and applied, this factor will continue to. be looked at
through a fog. It is fair to assume that an outstandingly successful
company has unusually good management. This will have shown
itself already in the past record; it will show up again in the esti-
mates for the next five years, and once more in the previously dis-
cussed factor of long-term prospects. The tendency to count it still
another time as a separate bullish consideration can easily lead to
expensive overvaluations. The management factor is most useful,
we think, in those cases in which a recent change has taken place
that has not yet had the time to show its significance in the actual
figures.
Two spectacular occurrences of this kind were associated with
the Chrysler Motor Corporation. The first took place as far back as
1921, when Walter Chrysler took command of the almost mori-
bund Maxwell Motors, and in a few years made it a large and
highly profitable enterprise, while numerous other automobile
companies were forced out of business. The second happened as
recently as 1962, when Chrysler had fallen far from its once high
estate and the stock was selling at its lowest price in many years.
Then new interests, associated with Consolidation Coal, took over
the reins. The earnings advanced from the 1961 figure of $1.24 per
share to the equivalent of $17 in 1963, and the price rose from a low
of 38% in 1962 to the equivalent of nearly 200 the very next year.6
