### 5. Current Dividend Rate. This, our last additional factor, is the

the majority of companies have come to follow what may be called
a standard dividend policy. This has meant the distribution of
about two-thirds of their average earnings, except that in the recent
period of high profits and inflationary. demands for more capital
the figure has tended to be lower. (In 1969 it was 59.5% for the
stocks in the Dow Jones average, and 55% for all American corpo-
rations.)* Where the dividend bears a normal relationship to the
earnings, the valuation may be made on either basis without sub-
stantially affecting the result. For example, a typical secondary
adx  pe   s aa paxa a 
dividend of $2 may be valued at either 12 times its earnings or 18
times its dividend, to yield a value of 36 in both cases.
However, an increasing number of growth companies are
departing from the once standard policy of paying out 60% or
more of earnings in dividends, on the grounds that the sharehold-
* This figure, now known as the "dividend payout ratio, has dropped consid-
erably since Graham's day as American tax law discouraged investors from
seeking, and corporations from paying, dividends. As of year-end 2002, the
Auaoai se 'pue xapu! yoois-oog d ? s aui jo, %l'te ie poois o!ei 1noked
as April 2000, it hit an alltime low of just 25.3%. (See www.barra.com/
research/fundamentals.asp.) We discuss dividend policy more thoroughly in
the commentary on Chapter 19.
Security Analysis for the Lay Investor
295
ers' interests will be better served by retaining nearly all the profits
to finance expansion. The issue presents problems and requires
careful distinctions. We have decided to defer our discission of the
vital question of proper dividend policy to a later section- Chapter
19---where we shall deal with it as a part of the general problem of
management-shareholder relations.
Capitalization Rates for Growth Stocks
Most of the writing of security analysts on formal appraisals
relates to the valuation of growth stocks. Our study of the various
methods has led us to suggest a foreshortened and quite simple
formula for the valuation of growth stocks, which is intended to
produce figures fairly close to those resulting from the more
refined mathematical calculations. Our formula is:
Value = Current (Normal) Earnings X (8.5 plus twice
the expected annual growth rate)
The growth figure should be that expected over the next seven to
ten years.?
In Table 11-4 we show how our formula works out for various
rates of assumed growth. It is easy to make the converse calcula-
tion and to determine what rate of growth is anticipated by the cur-
rent market price; assuming
g our formula is valid. In our last
edition we made that calculation for the DJIA and for six important
stock issues. These figures are reproduced in Table 11-5. We com-
mented at the time:
The difference between the implicit 32.4% annual growth rate
for Xerox and the extremely modest 2.8% for General Motors is
    s     
ration in historycan be maintained with difficulty and exceeded
only modestly at best. The price earnings ratio of Xerox, on the
other hand, is quite representative of speculative enthusiasm fas-
B srd p sane  e d e un p
greater promise.
The implicit or expected growth rate of 5.1% for the DJIA com-
20.0%
319.0%
Growth Rate,
48.5
Projecteda
1.8%
1969
9
17.9
1
21.2
14.3%
280.0%
37.1
P/E Ratio,
12.2 X
1969
20.4
11.6
44.4
10.8
50.8
14.0
 Implicit or Expected Growth Rates, December 1963 and December 1969
10.0%
159.0%
28.5
Actual Annual
 Annual Earnings Multipliers Based on Expected Growth Rates,
1963-1969
Growth,
4.75%
1.17
4.0
16.0
29.2
5
7.2%
100.0%
22.9
1969
4.00
3.79b
5.95
8.21
2.30
2.08
57.02
Per Share
Earned
5.0%
63.0%
3.48c
2.29c
41.11
18.5
5.55
8
1963
3.03
3.00
 Average of 1968 and 1970, since 1969 earnings were reduced by strike.
Growth Rate,
2.5%
28.0%
Projecteda
Based on a Simplified Formula
13.5
7.3%
1963
10.3
15.0
32.4
5
0.0%
0
P/E Ratio,
23.0 X
1963
29.0
14.1
38.5
13.2
25.0
18.6
Multiplier of current earnings
 Based on formula on p. 295.
International Harvester
 Adjusted for stock splits.
Expected growth rate
American Tel. & Tel.
Growth in 10 years
TABLE 11-5
General Electric
General Motors
TABLE 11-4
Xerox
DJIA
anssi
IBM
Security Analysis for the Lay Investor
297
pares with an actual annual increase of 3.4% (compounded)
between 1951-1953 and 1961-1963.
We should have added a caution somewhat as follows: The val-
uations of expected high-growth stocks are necessarily on the low
side, if we were to assume these growth rates will actually be real-
ized. In fact, according to the arithmetic, if a company could be
assumed to grow at a rate of 8% or more indefinitely in the future its
value would be infinite, and no price would be too high to pay for
the shares. What the valuer actually does in these cases is to intro-
duce a margin of safety into his calculations--somewhat as an engi-
 sa s  s   sa   s 
purchases would realize his assigned objective (in 1963, a future
overall return of 7%% per annum) even if the growth rate actually
realized proved substantially less than that projected in the for-
mula. Of course, then, if that rate were actually realized the
 investor would be sure to enjoy a handsome additional return.
There is really no way of valuing a high-growth company (with
an expected rate above, say, 8% annually), in which the analyst
can make realistic assumptions of both the proper multiplier for
the current earnings and the expectable multiplier for the future
earnings.
' As it happened the actual growth for Xerox and IBM proved
very close to the high rates implied from our formula. As just
explained, this fine showing inevitably produced a large advance
in the price of both issues. The growth of the DJIA itself was also
about as projected by the 1963 closing market price. But the moder-
ate rate of 5% did not involve the mathematical dilemma of Xerox
and IBM. It turned out that the 23% price rise to the end of 1970,
plus the 28% in aggregate dividend return received, gave not far
from the 7%% arnual overall gain posited in our formula. In the
case of the other four companies it may suffice to say that their
growth did not equal the expectations implied in the 1963 price
and that their quotations failed to rise as much as the DJIA. Warn-
ing: This material is supplied for illustrative purposes only, and
because of the inescapable necessity in security analysis to project
the future growth rate for most companies studied. Let the reader
not be misled into thinking that such projections have any high
degree of reliability or, conversely, that future prices can be
298
The Intelligent Investor
counted on to behave accordingly as the prophecies are realized,
surpassed, or disappointed.
 s   ,s,  n io d s 
dependable, stock evaluation based on anticipated future results
must take future interest rates into account. A given schedule of
expected earnings, or dividends, would have a smaller present
value if we assume a higher than if we assume a lower interest
structure.* Such assumptions have always been difficult to make
with any c
degree of confidence, and the recent violent swings in
long-term interest rates render forecasts of this sort almost pre-
sumptuous. Hence we have retained our old formula above, sim-
ply because no new one would appear more plausible.
Industry Analysis
Because the general prospects of the enterprise carry major
security analyst to devote a great deal of attention to the economic
position of the industry and of the individual company in its
industry. Studies of this kind can go into unlimited detail. They are
sometimes productive of valuable insights into important factors
that will be operative in the future and are insufficiently
I appreci-
ated by the current market. Where a conclusion of that kind can be
drawn with a fair degree of confidence, it affords a sound basis for
investment decisions.
Our own observation, however, leads us to minimize some-
what the practical value of most of the industry studies that are
made available to investors. The material developed is ordinarily
of a kind with which the public is already fairly familiar and that
has already exerted considerable influence on market quotations.
Kauo jo sunoe uib e isaau! ot 1e tz4 jo ani ay, 1g is!yi s! Aum *
doubles in just over seven years, while at 7%o it doubles in just over 10 years.
When interest rates are high, the amount of money you need. to set aside
today to reach a given value in the future is fower-since those high interest
rates will enable it to grow at a more rapid rate. Thus a rise in interest rates
today makes a future stream of earnings or dividends less valuable-since
the alternative of investing in bonds has become relatively more attractive.
Security Analysis for the Lay Investor
299
Rarely does one find a brokerage-house study that points out,
With a convincing array of facts, that a popular industry is head-
ing for a fall or that an unpopular one is due to prosper. Wall
Street's view of the longer future is notoriously fallible, and this
        
which is directed toward the forecasting of the course of profits in
various industries.
We must recognize, however, that the rapid and pervasive
growth of technology in recent years is not without major effect on
the attitude and the labors of the security analyst. More so than in
the past, the progress or retrogression of the typical company in the
coming decade may depend on its relation to new products and
new processes, which the analyst may have a chance to study and
  s e sso n     
effective work by the analyst, based on field trips, interviews with
research men, and on intensive technological investigation on his
own. There are hazards connected with investment conclusions
derived chiefly from such glimpses into the future, and not sup-
ported by presently demonstrable value. Yet there are perhaps
equal hazards in sticking closely to the limits of value set by sober
calculations resting on actual results. The investor cannot have it
both ways. He can be imaginative and play for the big profits that
are the reward for vision proved sound by the event; but then he
must run a substantial risk of major or minor miscalculation. Or he
can be conservative, and refuse to pay more than a minor premium
for possibilities as yet unproved; but in that case he must be pre-
pared for the later contemplation of golden opportunities foregone.
A Two-Part Appraisal Process
Let us return for a moment to the idea of valuation or appraisal
of a common stock, which we began to discuss above on p. 288. A
great deal of reflection on the subject has led us to conclude that
this better be done quite differently than is now the established
practice. We suggest that analysts work out first what we call the
'past-performance value," which is based solely on the past
record. This would indicate what the stock would be worth-
absolutely, or as a percentage of the DJIA or of the S & P compos-
ite -if it is assumed that its relative past performance will continue
300.
The Intelligent Investor
unchanged in the future. (This includes the assumption that its rel-
ative growth rate, as shown in the last seven years, will also con-
tinue unchanged over the next seven years.) This process could be
carried out mechanically by applying a formula that gives individ-
ual weights to past figures for profitability, stability, and growth,
and also for current financial condition. The second part of the
analysis should consider to what extent the value based solely on
past performance should be modified because of new conditions
expected in the future.
Such a procedure would divide the work between senior and
junior analysts as follows: (1) The senior analyst would set up the
-   n sn h  e n e
performance value. (2) The junior analysts would work up such
factors for the designated companies-pretty much in mechanical
fashion. (3) The senior analyst would then determine to what
extent a company's performance-absolute or relative-is likely to
differ from its past record, and what change should be made in
the value to reflect such anticipated changes. It would be best if the
senior analyst's report showed both the original valuation and the
modified one, with his reasons for the change.
Is a job of this kind worth doing? Our answer is in the affirma-
We doubt whether the valuations so reached will prove sufficiently
dependable in the case of the typical industrial company, great or
small. We shall illustrate the difficulties of this job in our discus-
sion of Aluminum Company of America (ALCOA) in the next
chapter. Nonetheless it should be done for such comimon stocks.
Why? First; many security analysts are bound to make current or
projected valuations, as part of their daily work. The method we
propose should be an improvement on those generally followed
today. Secondly, because it should
d give useful experience and
insight to the analysts who practice this method. Thirdly, because
work of this kind could produce an invaluable body of recorded
        s s
to better methods of procedure and a useful knowledge of its pos-
sibilities and limitations. The public-utility stocks might well
 r m  s m  n   
pragmatic value. Eventually the intelligent analyst will confine
himself to those groups in which the future appears reasonably
Security Analysis for the Lay Investor
301
predictable,* or where the margin of safety of past-performance
value over current price is so large that he can take his chances on
future variations- -as he does in selecting well-secured senior secu-
rities.
In subsequent chapters we shall supply concrete examples of
the application of analytical techniques. But they will only be illus-
trations. If the reader finds the subject interesting he should pursue
it systematically and thoroughly before he considers himself quali-
fied to pass a final buy-or-sell judgment of his own on a security
issue.
* These industry groups, ideally, wouid not be overly dependent on such
unforeseeable factors as fluctuating interest rates or the future direction of
prices for raw materials like oil or rmetals. Possibilities might be industries
like gaming, cosmetics, alcoholic beverages, nursing homes, or waste man-
agement.
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 11
"Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from
here?"
"That depends a good deai on where you want to get to, said
the Cat.
-Lewis Carroll, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland
Putting a Price on the Future
Which factors determine how much you should be willing to pay for a
stock? What makes one company worth 10 times earnings and
another worth 20 times? How can you be reasonably sure that you are
e aq on ino suni jeun ainin, Asoi Auaedde ue loy buiediaso pou
murky nightmare?
Graham feels that five elements are decisive.' He summarizes them as:
the company's "general long-term prospects"
the quality of its management
its financial strength and capital structure
its dividend record
and its current dividend rate.
Let's look.at these factors in the light of today's market.
The long-term prospects. Nowadays, the intelligent investor
should begin by downloading at least five years' worth of annual
reports (Form 1o-K) from the company's website or from the EDGAR
1 Because so few of today's individual investors buy-or should buy--individ-
Ual bonds, we will limit this discussion to stock analysis. For more on bond
funds, see the commentary on Chapter 4.
302
Commentary on Chapter 11
303
database at www.sec.gov.? Then comb through the financial state-
ments, gathering evidence to help you answer two overriding ques-
tions. What makes this company grow? Where do (and where will) its
profits come from? Among the problems to watch for:
The company is a "serial acquirer" An average of more than two
or three acquisitions a year is a sign of potential trouble. After all,
if the company itself would rather buy the stock of other busi-
nesses than invest in its own, shouldn't you take the hint and look
elsewhere too? And check the company's track record as an
acquirer. Watch out for corporate bulimics-firms that wolf down
big acquisitions, only to end up vomiting them back out. Lucent,
Mattel, Quaker Oats, and Tyco International are among the com-
panies that have had to disgorge acquisitions at sickening losses.
Other firms take chronic write-offs, or accounting charges proving
that they overpaid for their past: acquisitions. That's a bad omen
for future deal making.*
The company is an OPM addict, borrowing debt or selling stock
to raise boatloads of Other People's Money. These fat infusions of
OPM are labeled "cash from financing activities" on the statement
of cash flows in the annual report. They can make a sick company
appear to be growing even if its underlying businesses are not
generating enough cash-as Global Crossing and WorldCom
showed not long ago.t
2 You should also get at least one year's worth of quarterly reports (on Form
willing to devote a considerable amount of effort to your portfolio. lf the
steps in this chapter sound like too much work to you, then you are not tem-
peramentally well suited to picking your own stocks. You cannot reliably
obtain the results you imagine unless you put in the kind of effort we
describe.
3 You can usually find details on acquisitions in the “Management's Discus-
sion and Analysis" section of Form 1o-K; cross-check it against the foot-
notes to the financial statements. For more on "serial acquirers," see the
commentary on Chapter 12.
4 To determine whether a company is an OPM addict, read the "Statement
of Cash Flows" in the financial statements. This page breaks down the
304
Commentary on Chapter 11
The company is a Johnny-One-Note, relying on one customer (or
a handful) for most of its revenues. In October 1999, fiber-optics
maker Sycamore Networks, inc. soid stock to the public for the
first time. The prospectus revealed that one customer, Williams
Communications, accounted for 10o%o of Sycamore's $11 million
in total revenues. Traders blithely valued Sycamore's shares at
$15 bilion. Unfortunately, Williams went bankrupt just over two
stock lost 97% between 2000 and 2002.
As you study the sources of growth and profit, stay on the lookout
for positives as well as negatives. Among the good signs:
The company has a wide "moat;" or competitive advantage. Like
n    s  so o ss
competitors, while others are almost impregnable. Several forces
can widen a company's moat: a strong brand identity (think of
. Harley Davidson, whose buyers tattoo the company's logo onto
economies of scale, or the ability to supply huge amounts of goods
or services cheaply (consider Gillette, which churns out razor
blades by the billion); a unique intangible asset (think of Coca-
Cola, whose secret formula for flavored syrup has no real physical
value but maintains a priceless hold on consumers); a resistance
     ss s ss 
so utility companies are unlikely to be supplanted any time soon).5
positive, the company
y has a habit of craving more cash than its own
businesses can produce-and you should not join the "enablers" of that
habitual abuse. For more on Global Crossing, see the commentary on
