### 1970. But we do not know what that portion is, and hence we cannot

properly state the true earnings for the year. The management and the
auditors should have given us their best judgment on this point,
but they did not do so. And furthermore, the management and the
auditors should have provided for deduction of the balance of
these charges from the ordinary earnings of a suitable number of
a  o se oo os sa   o  a 
Machine & Foundry (or AMF Corp.), one of the most jumbled conglomerates
of the late 1960s. It was a predecessor of today's AMF Bowling Worldwide,
which operates bowling alleys and manufactures bowling equipment.
316
The Intelligent Investor
future years-say, not more than five. This evidently they will not
do either, since they have already conveniently disposed of the
entire sum as a 1970 special charge.
as published, the more necessary it is for them to be on their guard.
against accounting factors of one kind and another that may impair
the true comparability of the numbers. We have mentioned three
sorts of these factors: the use of special charges, which may never be
reflected in the per-share earnings, the reduction in the normal
income-tax deduction by reason of past losses, and the dilution fac-
tor implicit in the existence of substantial amounts of convertible
   s     i  
effect on reported earnings in the past is the method of treating
depreciation--chiefly
I as between the "straight-line" and the
"accelerated" schedules. We refrain from details here. But as an
example current as we write, let us mention the 1970 report of
Trane Co. This firm showed an increase of nearly 20% in per-share
  1    1   s
returning to the older straight-line depreciation rates, less burden-
    n   s  
before. (The company will continue to use the accelerated rate on
its income-tax return, thus deferring income-tax payments on the
difference.) Still another factor, important at times, is the choice
between charging off research and development costs in the year
a  p e o     n 
Finally, let us mention the choice between the FIFO (first-in-first-
Out) and LIFO (last-in-first-out) methods of valuing inventories.*
* Nowadays, investors need to be aware of several other "accounting fac-
tors" that can distort reported earnings. One is "pro forma" or "as if" finan-
cial statements, which report a company's earnings as if Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) did not apply. Another is the dilu-
tive effect of issuing millions of stock options for executive compensation,
then buying back millions of shares to keep those options from reducing the
value of the common stock. A third is unrealistic assumptions of return on
years and depress them in bad. Another is "Special Purpose Entities," or
affiliated firms or partnerships that buy risky assets or liabilities of the com-
Things to Consider About Per-Share Earnings
317
An obvious remark here would be that investors should not pay
any attention to these accounting variables if the amounts involved
are relatively small. But Wall Street being as it is, even items quite
minor in themselves can be taken seriously. Two days before the
 ed  'n  mm   paadde oda o
quite a discussion of the corresponding statement of Dow Chemi-
cal. It closed with the observation that "many analysts" had been
troubled by the fact that Dow had included a 21-cent item in regu-
lar profits for 1969, instead of treating it as an item of "extraordi-
nary income." Why the fuss? Because, evidently, evaluations of
Dow Chemical involving many millions of dollars in the aggregate
  d  s a a  pp c p
1969 over 1968-in this case either 9% or 4%%. This strikes us
as rather absurd; it is very unlikely that small differences involved
in one year's results could have any bearing on future average
profits or growth, and on a conservative, realistic valuation of the
enterprise.
By contrast, consider another statement also appearing in Janu-
S d  s   s h 
1970.* The company was planning to write off, as a special charge,
not less than $264 million in one fell swoop. Of this, $200 million
represents the loss to be taken on the proposed sale of the railroad
subsidiary to its employees and the balance a write-down of a
recent stock purchase. These sums would work out to a loss of
about $35 per share of common before dilution offsets, or twice its
then current market price. Here we have something really signifi-
sheet. Another element of distortion is the treatment of marketing or other
"soft" costs as assets of the company, rather than as normal expenses of
doing business. We will briefly examine such practices in the commentary
that accompanies this chapter.
* Northwest Industries was the hoiding company for, among other busi-
nesses, the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Co. and Union Underwear
(the maker of both BVD and Fruit of the Loom briefs). It was taken over in
1985 by overindebted financier William Farley, who ran the company into
the ground. Fruit of the Loom was bought in a bankruptcy proceeding by
 Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in early 2002.
318
The Intelligent Investor
cant. If the transaction goes through, and if the tax laws are not
changed, this loss provided for in 1970 will permit Northwest
Industries to realize about $400 million of future profits (within
five years) from its other diversified interests without paying
income tax thereon.* What will then be the real earnings of that
enterprise; should they be calculated with or without provision for
the nearly 50% in income taxes which it will not actually have to
pay? In our opinion, the proper mode of calculation would be first
to consider the indicated earning power on the basis of full income-
tax liability, and to derive some broad idea of the stock's value
based on that estimate. To this should be added some bonus figure,
representing the value per share of the important but temporary
tax exemption the company will enjoy. (Allowance must be made,
also, for a possible large-scale dilution in this case. Actually, the
convertible preferred issues and warrants would more than double
the outstanding common shares if the privileges are exercised.)
All this may be confusing and wearisome to our readers, but it
belongs in our story. Corporate accounting is often tricky; security
analysis can be complicated; stock valuations are really
depend-
able only in exceptional cases.t For most investors it would be
probably best to assure themselves that they are getting good value
* Graham is referring to the provision of Federal tax law that allows corpora-
tions to "carry forward" their net operating losses. As the tax code now
stands, these losses can be carried.forward for up to 20 years, reducing the 
company's tax liability for the entire period (and thus raising its earnings
after tax). Therefore, investors should consider whether recent severe
losses could actually improve the company's net earnings. in the future.
t Investors should keep these words at hand and remind themselves of
them frequently: “"Stock valuations are really dependable only in exceptional 
cases." While the prices of most stocks are approximately right most of the
time, the price of a stock and the value of its business are almost never iden-
tical. The market's judgment on price is often unreliable. Unfortunately, the
margin of the market's pricing errors is often not wide enough to justify the
expense of trading on them. The intelligent investor must carefully evaluate
the costs of trading and taxes before attempting to take advantage of any
price discrepancy-and should never count on being able to sell for the
exact price currently quoted in the market.
Things to Consider About Per-Share Earnings
319
Use of Average Earnings
In former times analysts and investors paid considerable atten-
ed a ui pd i  e rao sa aa a oi u
ironing out the frequent ups and downs of the business cycle, and
it was thought to give a better idea of the company's earning
power than the results of the latest year alone. One important
advantage of such an averaging process is that it will solve the
problem of what to do about nearly all the special charges and
  sa aa ae  p aa nos  s
 po d e sa s p sssn s g pso 
company's operating history. If we do this for ALCOA, the average
earnings for 1961-1970 (ten years) would appear as $3.62 and for
the seven years 1964 1970 as $4.62 per share. If such figures are
used in conjunction with ratings
for growth and stability of earn-
ings during the same period, they could give a really informing
picture of the company'
Y's past performance.
Calculation of the Past Growth Rate
         g i n
record be taken adequately
y into account. Where the growth has
been large the recent earnings will be well above the seven- or ten-
year average, and analysts may deem these long-term figures irrel-
evant. This need not be the case. The earnings can be given in
terms both of the average and the latest figure. We suggest that the
growth rate itself be calculated by comparing the average of the last
three years with corresponding figures ten years earlier. (Where
P q  t   s p, e d e si 
with on some compromise basis.) Note the following calculation
for the growth of ALCOA as against that of Sears Roebuck and the
DJIA group as a whole.
Comment: These few figures could be made the subject of a long
discussion. They probably show as well as any others, derived by
elaborate mathematical treatment, the actual growth of earnings
* "Mean figure" refers to the simple, or arithmetic, average that Graham
describes in the preceding sentence.
320
TheIntelligent Investor
TABLE 12-1
ALCOA
Sears Roebuck
DJIA
Average earnings 1968-1970
$4.95a
$2.87
$55.40
Average earnings 1958-1960
2.08
1.23
31.49
Growth
141.0%
134.0%
75.0%
Annual rate (compounded)
9.0%
8.7%
5.7%
a Three-fifths of special charges of 82 cents in 1970 deducted here.
for the long period 1958-1970. But how relevant is this figure, gen-
erally considered central in common-stock valuations, to the case
of ALCOA? Its past growth rate was excellent, actually a bit better
than that of acclaimed Sears Roebuck and much higher than that of
the DJlA composite. But the market price at the beginning of 1971
seemed to pay no attention to this fine performance. ALCOA sold
at only 11% times the recent three-year average, while Sears sold at
27 times and the DJIA itself at 15+ times. How did this come about?
Evidently Wall Street has fairly pessimistic views about the future
course of ALCOA's earnings, in contrast with its past record. Sur-
prisingly enough, the high price for ALCOA was made as far back
as 1959. In that year it sold at 116, or 45 times its earnings. (This
compares with a 1959 adjusted high price of 25% for Sears Roebuck,
or 20 times its then earnings.) Even though ALCOA's profits did
show excellent growth thereafter, it is evident that in this case the
future possibilities were greatly overestimated in the market price.
It closed 1970 at exactly half of the 1959 high, while Sears tripled in
price and the DJLA moved up nearly 30%.
dn u s svo  io pod  Pors 
funds* had been only average or less, and this may be the decisive
factor here. High multipliers have been maintained in the stock mar-
ket only if the company has maintained better than average prof-
itability.
* Graham appears to be using "earnings on capital funds" in the traditional
sense of return on book value-essentially, net income divided by the
company's tangible net assets.
Things to Consider About Per-Share Earnings
321
Let us apply at this point to ALCOA the suggestion we made in
 a dis, e nd r rr 
ALCOA of 10% of the DJIA, or $84 per share relative to the closing
price of 840 for the DJIA in 1970. On this basis the shares would
have appeared quite attractive at their price of 57%.
To what extent should the senior analyst have marked down the
"past-performance value" to allow for adverse developments that
he saw in the future? Frankly, we have no idea. Assume he had rea-
son to believe that the 1971 earnings would be as low as $2.50 per
share--a large drop
o from the 1970 figure, as against an advance
expected for the DJIA. Very likely the stock market would take this
poor performance quite seriously, but would it really establish the
once mighty Aluminum Company of America as a relatively
unprofitable enterprise, to be valued at less than its tangible assets
behind the shares?+ (In 1971 the price declined from a high of 70 in
May to a low of 36 in December, against a book value of 55.)
ALCOA is surely a representative industrial company of huge
size, but we think that its price-and-earnings history is more
unusual, even contradictory, than that of most other large enter-
expressed in the last chapter as to the dependability of the appraisal
* See pp. 299-301.
+ Recent history-and a mountain of financial research--have shown.that the
market is unkindest to rapidly growing companies that suddenly report a fall
in earnings. More moderate and stable growers, as ALCOA was in
Graham's day or Anheuser-Busch and Colgate-Palmolive are in our time,
tend to suffer somewhat milder stock declines if they report disappointing
earnings. Great expectations lead to great disappointment if they are not
met; a failure to meet moderate expectations leads to a much milder reac-
tion. Thus, one of the biggest risks in owning growth stocks is not that their
growth will stop, but merely that it wili slow down. And in the long run, that is
not merely a risk, but a virtual certainty.
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 12
ueo nos ueui uad e yim apnp e Xq haisee ho paddu jee ueo nok
by a dude with a gun.
-Bo Diddley
The numbers Game
Even Graham would have been startled by the extent to which compa-
nies and their accountants pushed the limits of propriety in the past
few years. Compensated heavily through stock options, top execu-
tives realized that they could become fabulously rich merely by
increasing their company's earnings for just a few years running.' Hun-
dreds of companies violated the spirit, if not the letter, of accounting
principles-turning their financial reports into gibberish, tarting up ugly
results with cosmetic fixes, cloaking expenses, or manufacturing earn-
ings out of thin air. Let's look at some of these unsavory practices.
AS If!
Perhaps the most widespread bit of accounting hocus-pocus was the
"pro forma" earnings fad. There's an old saying on Wall Street that
every bad idea starts out as a good idea, and pro forma earnings pre-
sentation is no different. The original point was to provide a truer pic-
deviations from the trend or for supposedly "nonrecurring" events. A
pro forma press release might, for instance, show what a company
would have earned over the past year if another firm it just acquired
had been part of the family for the entire 12 months.
1 For more on how stock options can enrich corporate managers-but not
necessarily outside shareholders-see the commentary on Chapter 19.
322
Commentary on Chapter 12
323
leave well enough alone. Just look at these examples of pro forma flim-
flam:
For the quarter ended September 30, 1999, InfoSpace, Inc. pre.
ow 6'bgis pied jou pey l! t! se shuiuee ewoy oid sh! paiuas
in preferred-stock dividends.
For the quarter ended October 31, 2001, BEA Systems, Inc. pre-
sented its pro forma earnings as if it had not paid $193 million in
payroll taxes on stock options exercised by its employees.
For the quarter ended March 31, 2001, JDS Uniphase Corp. pre-
sented its pro forma earnings as if it had not paid $4 million in
payroll taxes, had not lost $7 million investing in lousy stocks, and
pue sebaw oi paiela sabeyo u! sog s'zs panou! ou pey
goodwill.
In short, pro forma earnings enable companies to show how well
they might have done if they hadn't done as badly as they did.2 As an
inteligent investor, the only thing you should do with pro forma earn-
ings is ignore them.
HuNGry For recoGnitiON
In 2ooo, Qwest Communications International Inc., the telecommuni-
cations giant, looked strong. Its shares dropped less than 5% even as
the stock market lost more than 9% that year.
: But Qwest's financial reports held an odd little revelation. In late
1999, Qwest decided to recognize the revenues from its telephone
directories as soon as the phone books were published--even though,
knows, many businesses pay for those ads in monthly installments.
2 All the above examples are taken directly from press releases issued by
the companies themselves. For a brilliant satire on what daily life would be
like if we all got to justify our behavior the same way companies adjust their
reported earnings, see "My Pro Forma Life" by Rob Walker, at http://slate.
msn.com/?id=2063953. (". . . a recent p0st-workout lunch of a 22-ounce,
bone-in rib steak at Smith & Wollensky and three shots of bourbon is treated
here as a nonrecurring expense. I'll never do that again!")
324
Commentary on Chapter 12
Abracadabra! That piddly-sounding "change in accounting principle"
the money Qwest earned that year.
Like a little chunk of ice crowning a submerged iceberg, aggressive
revenue recognition is often a sign of dangers that run deep and loom
large-and so it was at Qwest. By early 2003, after reviewing its previ-
ous financial statements, the company announced that it had prema-
costs of services provided by outsiders, inappropriately booked costs
as if they were capital assets rather than expenses, and unjustifiably
treated the exchange of assets as if they were outright sales. All told,
Qwest's revenues for 2000 and 2001 had been overstated by $2.2
principle, which was now reversed.?
CaPital Offenses
In the late 1990s, Global Crossing Ltd. had unlimited ambitions. The
Bermuda-based company was building what it called the "first inte-
3 In 2002, Qwest was one of 330 publicly-traded companies.to restate past
financial statements, an al-time record, according to, Huron Consulting
Group. All information on Qwest is taken from its financial filings with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (annual report, Form 8K, and
Form 10-K) found in the EDGAR database at www.sec.gov. No hindsight
fully disclosed at the time. How did Qwest's shares do over this period? At
$67.9 billion. By early 2003, Qwest was around $4, valuing the entire com-
pany at less than $7 billion-a 90% loss. The drop in share price is not the
only cost associated with bogus earnings; a recent study found that a sam-
ple of 27 firms accused of accounting fraud by the SEC had overpaid $320
million in Federal income tax. Although much of that money will eventually be
refunded by the IRS, most shareholders are unlikely to stick around to bene-
fit from the refunds. (See Merle Erickson, Michelle Hanlon, and Edward May-
dew, "How Much Will Firms Pay for Earnings that Do Not Exist?" at http://
papers.ssrn.com.)
Commentary on Chapter 12
325
cables, largely laid across the floor of the world's oceans. After wiring
the world, Global Crossing would sell other communications compa-
nies the right to carry their traffic over its network of cables. In 1998
alone, Global Crossing spent more than $600 million to construct its
optical web. That year, nearly a third of the construction budget was
Kioedeo jo jsoo, palleo esuadxa ue se sanuarai lsuiebe pabreuo
sold!" If not for that $178 million expense, Global Crossing-which
reported a net loss of $96 million-could have reported a net profit of
roughly $82 million.
The next year, says a bland footnote in the 1999 annual report,
Global Crossing "initiated service contract accounting" The company
would no longer charge most construction costs as expenses against
the immediate revenues it received from selling capacity on its net-
work. Instead, a major chunk of those construction costs would now
be treated not as an operating expense but as a capital expenditure-
thereby increasing the company's total assets, instead of decreasing
its net income.
Poof! In one wave of the wand, Global Crossing's "property and
equipment" assets rose by $575 million, while its cost of sales
increased by a mere $350 million-even though the company was
spending money like a drunken sailor.
 Capital expenditures are an essential tool for managers to make a
good business grow bigger and better. But malleable accounting
rules permit managers to inflate reported profits by transforming nor-
expense to be charged against the revenue generated from the sale or lease
of usage rights on its network. Customers generally paid for their rights up
no ot dn jo spouad hao siuawnsui u! red pinoo awos yonouie tuo
years. But Global Crossing did not book most of the revenues up front,
instead deferring them over the lifetime of the lease. Now, however, because
the networks had an estimated usable life of up to 25 years, Global Cross-
ing began treating them as depreciable, long-lived capital assets. While this
treatment conforms with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, it is
unclear why Global Crossing did not use it before October 1, 1999, or what
exactly prompted the change. As of March 2001, Global Crossing had a
January 28, 2002, rendering its common stock essentialy worthless.
326
Commentary on Chapter 12
mal operating expenses into capital assets. As the Global Crossing
case shows, the intelligent investor should be sure to understand
what, and why, a company capitalizes.
An InVenTOry Story
suffered a drop in sales after 2ooo. In fact, Micron was hit so hard by
the plunge in demand that it had to start writing down the value of its
inventories-since customers clearly did not want them at the prices
Micron had been asking. In the quarter ended May 2001, Micron
slashed the recorded value of its inventories by $261 million. Most
investors interpreted the write-down not as a normal or recurring cost
of operations, but as an unusual event.
But look what happened after that:
FIGURE 12-1
A Block of the Old Chips
500
465.8
450
($ millions)
400
350
Inventory write-downs 
261.1
250
200
1728
173.6
150
100
806
50
25.9
3.8
D
May 2001
August 2001 November 2001 February 2002
May 2002
August 2002 November 2002
Micron Technology fiscal quarters
Source: Micron. Technology's financial reports.
Commentary on Chapter 12
327
Micron booked further inventory write-downs in every one of the
next six fiscal quarters. Was the devaluation of Micron's inventory a
nonrecurring event, or had it become a chronic condition? Reason-
The intelligent investor must always be on guard for "nonrecurring
costs that, like the Energizer bunny, just keep on going.
The pensIon dimension
In 2001, SBC Communications, Inc., which owns interests in Cingular
Wireless, PacTel, and Southern New Engiand Telephone, earned $7.2
billion in net income-a stellar performance in a bad year for the
overextended telecom industry. But that gain didn't come only from
income-came from SBC's pension plan.
Because SBC had more money in the pension plan than it esti-
mated was necessary to pay its employees' future benefits, the com-
pany got to treat the difference as current income. One simple reason
for that surplus: In 2001, SBC raised the rate of return it expected to
earn on the pension plan's investments from 8.5% to 9.5%-lowering
the amount of money it needed to set aside today.
SBC explained its rosy new expectations by noting that "for each
high, so let's assume that our future returns will be too. But that not
only flunked the most rudimentary tests of logic, it flew in the face of
the fact that interest rates were falling to near-record lows, depressing
the future returns on the bond portion of a pension portfolio.
The same year, in fact, Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway low-
ered the expected rate of return on its pension assets from 8.3% to
6.5%. Was SBC being realistic in assuming that its pension-fund man-
agers could significantly outperform the world's greatest investor?
Probably not: In 2001, Berkshire Hathaway's pension fund gained
9.8%, but SBC's pension fund lost 6.9%.6
6 I am grateful to Howard Schilit and Mark Hamel of the Center for Financial
Research and Analysis for providing this example.
6 Returns are approximated by dividing the total net value of plan assets at
the beginning of the year by "actual return on plan assets."
328
Commentary on Chapter 12
Here are some quick considerations for the intelligent investor: Is
the "net pension benefit" more than 5% of the company's net income?
(lf so, would you still be comfortable with the company's other earn-
ings if those pension gains went away in future years?) Is the
2003, anything above 6.5% is implausible, while a rising rate is
downright delusional.)
Caveat InVestor
A few pointers will help you avoid buying a stock that turns out to be
an accounting time bomb:
' Read backwards. When you research a company's financial
reports, start reading .on the last page and slowly work your way
toward the front. Anything that the company doesn't want you to find
is buried in the back-which is precisely why you should look there
first.
Read the notes. Never buy a stock without reading the footnotes
to the financial statements in the annual report. Usually labeled "sum-
mary of significant accounting policies," one key note describes how
the company recognizes revenue, records inventories, treats install-
ment or contract sales, expenses its marketing costs, and accounts
for the other major aspects of its business.? In the other footnotes,
-y buunoo jo abeiqea buuoq Aibuijadns au Aa go ind aq ou oa 
notes. They are designed expressly to deter normal people from actually
reading them-which is why you must persevere. A footnote to the 1996
annual report of Informix Corp., for instance, disclosed that "The Company
generally recognizes license revenue from sales of software licenses upon
delivery of the software product to a customer. However, for certain com-
puter  hardware  manufacturers and end-user licensees  with amounts
payable within twelve months, the Company will recognize revenue at the
time the customer makes a contractual commitment for a minimum non-
refundable license fee, if such computer hardware manufacturers and end-
user licensees meet certain criteria established by the Company." In plain
English, Informix was saying that it would credit itself for revenues on prod-
ucts even if they had not yet been resold to "end-users" (the actual cus-
tomers for Informix's software). Amid allegations by the U.S. Securities and
Commentary on Chapter 12
329
watch for disclosures about debt, stock options, loans to customers,
reserves against losses, and other "risk factors" that can take a big
chomp out of earnings. Among the things that should make your
antennae twitch are technical terms like "capitalized, “deferred” and
"restructuring"-and plain-English words signaling that the company
has altered its accounting practices, like "began, "change" and "how-
ever?' None of those words mean you should not buy the stock, but all
mean that you need to investigate further. Be sure to compare the
footnotes with those in the financial statements of at least one firm
that's a close competitor, to see how aggressive your company's
accountants are.
Read more. Iif you are an enterprising investor willing to put plenty
of time and energy into your portfolio, then you owe it to yourself to
 o m o  s boda  noge o 
your odds of being misled by a shifty earnings statement. Three solid
books full of timely and specific examples are Martin Fridson and Fer-
nando Alvarez's Financial Statement Analysis, Charles Mulford and
Eugene Comiskey's The Financial Numbers Game, and Howard
Schilit's Financial Shenanigans.8
Exchange Commission that Informix had committed accounting fraud, the
company later restated its revenues, wiping away $244 million in such
"sales? This case is a keen reminder of the importance of reading the fine
print with a skeptical eye. I am indebted to Martin Fridson for suggesting this
example.
: Martin Fridson and Fernando Alvarez, Financial Statement Analysis: A
Practitioner's Guide (John Wiley & Sons, New York, 2002); Charles W. Mul
ford and Eugene E. Comiskey, The Financial Numbers Game: Detecting
Creative Accounting Practices (John Wiley & Sons, New York, 2002);
Howard Schilit, Financial Shenanigans (McGraw-Hill, New York, 2002).
Benjamin Graham's own book, The Interpretation of Financial Statements
(HarperBusiness, New York, 1998 reprint of 1937 edition); remains an
excellent brief introduction to the basic principles of earnings and expenses,
assets and liabilities.
