### 6. Price History. The reader should be impressed by the percent-

age advance shown in the price of all four of these issues, as mea-
sured from the lowest to the highest points during the past 34
years. (In all cases the low price has been adjusted for subsequient
stock splits.) Note that for the DJIA the range from low to high was
on the order of 11 to 1; for our companies the spread has varied
from "only" 17 to 1 for Emhart to no less than 528 to 1 for Emery
Air Freight.* These manifold price advances are characteristic of
most of our older common-stock issues, and they proclaim the
great opportunities of profit that have existed in the stock markets
of the past. (But they may indicate also how overdone were the
declines in the bear markets before 1950 when the low prices were
registered.) Both ELTRA and Emhart sustained price shrinkages of
more than 50% in the 1969=70 price break. Emerson and Emery had
serious, but less distressing, declines; the former rebounded to a
new all-time high before the end of 1970, the latter in early 1971.
* In each case, Graham is refering to Section C of Table 13-2 and dividing
the high price during the 1936-1968 period by the low price. For example,
Emery's high price. of 66 divided by its low price of 1/8 equals 528, or a
ratio of 528 to 1 between the high and low.
A Comparison of Four Listed Companies
335
General Observations on the Four Companies
Emerson Electric has an enormous total market value, dwarfing
the other three companies combined.* It is one of our "good-will
giants," to be commented on later. A financial analyst blessed (or
handicapped) with a good memory will think of an analogy
between Emerson Electric and Zenith Radio, and that would not be
reassuring. For Zenith had a brilliant growth record for many
years; it to0 sold in the market for $1.7 billion (in 1966); but its prof-
its fell from $43 million in 1968 to only half as much in 1970, and in
that year's big selloff its price declined to 22% against the previous
top of 89. High valuations entail high risks.
Emery Air Freight must be the most promising of the four compa-
nies in terms of future growth, if the price/earnings ratio of nearly 40
times its highest reported earnings is to be even partially justified.
The past growth, of course, has been most impressive. But these fig-
 te spis am  ay d n sis os aq nou e san
started quite small, at only $570,000 of net earnings in 1958. It often
proves much more difficult to continue to grow at a high rate after
volume and.profits have already
y expanded to big totals. The most
  s s r si As s g s sns
price continued to grow apace in 1970, which was the worst year in
the domestic air-passenger industry. This is a remarkable achieve-
 sd a  n  ss    g
not be vulnerable to adverse developments, through increased com-
petition, pressure for new arrangements between forwarders and air-
lines, etc. An elaborate study
1 might be needed before a sound
judgment could be passed on these points, but the conservative
investor cannot leave them out of his general reckoning.
Emhart and ELTRA. Emhart has done better in its business than in
the stock market over the past 14 years. In 1958 it sold as high as 22
S e e se o s e is   s
Since then its profits tripled, as against a rise of less than 100% for
the Dow, but its closing price in 1970 was only a third above the
* At the end of 1970, Emerson's $1.6 billion in market value truly was “enor-
mous," given average stock sizes at the time. At year-end 2002, Emerson's
common stock had a total market value of approximately $21 billion.
336
The Intelligent Investor
1958 high, versus 43% for the Dow. The record of ELTRA is some-
what similar. It appears that neither of these companies possesses
glamour, or "sex appeal," in the present market; but in all the sta-
tistical data they show up surprisingly well. Their future pros-
pects? We have no sage remarks to make here, but this is what
Standard & Poor's had to say about the four companies in 1971:
ELTRA-—"Long-term Prospects: Certain operations are cyclical, but an
       n
tors."
 e  (  d  , -r 
outlook, the shares have appeal for the long term. . . . A continued acqui-
sition policy together with a strong position in industrial fields and an
accelerated international program suggests further sales and earnings
progress."
  (  d  e s ,   
rent prospects, but are well worth holding for the long pull."
the glass-container industry, earnings should be aided by an improved
business environment in 1972. The shares are worth holding (at 34)."
Conclusions: Many financial analysts will find Emerson and
Emery more interesting and appealing stocks than the other two
primarily, perhaps, because of their better "market action," and
secondarily
because of their faster recent growth in earnings.
Under our principles of conservative investment the first is not a
valid reason for selection--that is something for the speculators to
play around with. The second has validity, but within limits. Can
the past growth and the presumably good prospects of Emery Air
Freight justify a price more than 60 times its recent earnings?i Our
answer would be: Maybe for someone who has made an in-depth
study of the possibilities of this company and come up with excep-
tionally firm and optimistic conclusions. But not for the careful
investor who wants to be reasonably sure in advance that he is not
 o e      n
good performance in earnings and in the stock market.* The same
* Graham was right. Of the "Nifty Fifty" stocks that were most fashionable
and highly valued in 1972, Emery fared among the worst. The March 1,
A Comparison of Four Listed Companies
337
cautionary statements seem called for in the case of Emerson Elec-
tric, with a special reference to the market's current valuation of
over a billion dollars for the intangible, or earning-power, factor
here. We should add that the "electronics industry," once a fair-
haired child of the stock market, has in general fallen on disastrous
days. Emerson is an outstanding exception, but it will have to con-
tinue to be such an exception for a great many years in the future
before the 1970 closing price will have been fully justified by its
subsequent performance.
By contrast, both ELTRA at 27 and Emhart at 33 have the ear-
marks of companies with sufficient value behind their price to con-
stitute reasonably protected investments. Here the investor can, if
he wishes, consider himself basically a part owner of these busi-
be the money invested therein.* The rate of earnings on invested
capital has long been satisfactory; the stability of profits also; the
past growth rate surprisingly so. The two companies will meet our
seven statistical requirements for inclusion in a defensive investor's
portfolio. These will be developed in the next chapter, but we sum-
marize them as follows:
