### 7. Price no more than 15 times average earnings of the past three

years.
 We make no predictions about the future earnings performance
of ELrRA or Emhart. In the investor's diversified list of common
stocks there are bound to be some that prove disappointing, and
this may be the case for one or both of this pair. But the diversified
list itself, based on the above principles of selection, plus whatever
other sensible criteria the investor may wish to apply, should per-
form well enough across the years. At least, long experience tells
us so.
A final observation: An experienced security analyst, even if he
accepted our general reasoning on these four companies, would
have hesitated to recommend that a holder of Emerson or Emery
exchange his shares for ELrRA or Emhart at the end of 1970--unless
the holder understood clearly the philosophy behind the recom-
 s    x n s t   n
of time the low-multiplier duo would outperform the high-
multipliers. The latter were well thought of in the market and thus
had a considerable degree of momentum behind them, which
might continue for an indefinite period. The sound basis for prefer-
ring ELrRA and Emhart to Emerson and Emery would be the
client's considered conclusion that he preferred value-type invest-
ments to glamour-type investments. Thus, to a substantial extent,
common-stock investment policy must depend on the attitude of
the individual investor. This approach is treated at greater length
in our next chapter.
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 13
In the Air Force we have a rule: check six. A guy is flying along.
looking in all directions, and feeling very safe. Another guy flies
up behind him (at "6 o'clock"-"12 o'clock" is directly in front)
and shoots. Most airplanes are shot down that way. Thinking
that you're safe is very dangerous! Somewhere, there's a weak-
ness you've got'to find. You must always check six o'clock.
-U.S. Air Force Gen. Donald Kutyna
E-bUSIness
As Graham did, let's compare and contrast four stocks, using their
reported numbers as of December 31, 1999-a time that will enable
us to view some of the most drastic extremes of valuation ever
recorded in the stock market.
Emerson Electric Co. (ticker symbol: EMR) was founded in 1890
it makes a wide array of products, including power tools, air-
conditioning equipment, and electrical motors.
EMC Corp. (ticker symbol: EMC) dates back to 1979 and enables
companies to automate the storage of electronic information over
computer networks.
Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. (ticker symbol:
EXPD), founded in Seattle in 1979, helps shippers organize and track
the movement of goods around the world.
Exodus Communications, Inc. (ticker symbol: EXDS) hosts and
manages websites for corporate customers, along with other Internet
services; it-first sold shares to the public in March 1998.
This table summarizes the price, performance, and valuation of
these companies as of year-end 1999:
339
of Washington
International
Expeditors
21.68
19.8
0.55
25.8
0.08
2.79
109.1
2218.8
1444.6
59.2
402.7
253.1
39.4
7.8
19.7
no debt
1.5
0
Communications,
0.38
NM
0.05
NM
Exodus
44.41
1005.8
14358.4
2555.7
-130.3
1093.2
150.6
888.1
242.1
0.4
59.3
0
Inc.
EMC Corp.
27.1、
54.62
0.53
2.38
157.1
111054.3
6715.6
1010.6
28.8
28.8
4320.4
1397.9
103.1
22.9
17.4
107.8
16.5
0
2
Emerson
57.37
7
3.00
8.3
1.30
14.27
--3.1
24845.9
4600.1
14385.8
1313.6
5124.4
4590.4
Electric
3
2
21.0
(  ) 6 a  5
Total market cap, 12/31/99, $ millions
Earnings growth, 1995 through 1999
E-valuations
Book value per share ($ 12/31/99)
Total revenues, 1999, $ millions
Net income, 1999, $ millions 
Current liabilities, $ millions
Net income/book value (%)
Current assets, $ millions
(x) qap /lendes uyom
X)
Market cap/revenues (
Total return, 1999 (%)
Price/book value (×)
Net income/revenues
(% net profit margin)
NM: not meaningful.
FIGURE 13-1
Balance sheet
Valuation
Earnings
Commentary on Chapter 13
341
electric, not electrifying
The most expensive of Graham's four stocks, Emerson Electric, ended
up as the cheapest in our updated group. With its base in Old Econ-
omy industries, Emerson looked boring in the late 1990s. (In the Inter-
net Age, who cared about Emerson's heavy-duty wet-dry vacuums?)
The company's shares went into suspended animation. In 1998 and
1999, Emerson's stock lagged the S & P 500 index by a cumulative
49.7 percentage points, a miserable underperformance.
But that was Emerson the stock. What about Emerson the com-
pany? In 1999, Emerson sold $14.4 billion worth of goods and ser-
vices, up nearly $1 billion from the year before. On those revenues
Emerson earned $1.3 billion in net income, or 6.9% more than in
