### 1998. Over the previous five years, earnings per share had risen at a

robust average rate of 8.3%. Emerson's dividend had more than dou-
bled to $1.30 per share; book value had gone from $6.69 to $14.27
per share. According to Value Line, throughout the 1990s, Emerson's
net profit margin and return on capital-key measures of its efficiency
as a business--had stayed robustly high, around 9% and 18% respec-
tively. What's more, Emerson had increased its earnings for 42 years
in a row and had raised its dividend for 43 straight years-one of the
longest runs of steady growth in American business. At year-end,
Emerson's stock was priced at 17.7 times the company's net income
per share. Like its power tools, Emerson was never flashy, but it was
reliable-and showed no sign of overheating.
Could emc Grow pdQ?
EMC Corp. was one of the best-performing stocks of the 1990s,
rising-or shouid we say levitating?-more than 81,000%. If you had
inivested $10,000 in EMC's stock at the beginning of 1990, you
would have ended 1999 with just over $8.1 million. EMC's shares
returned 157.1% in 1999 alone-more than Emerson's stock had
gained in the eight years from 1992 through 1999 combined. EMC
had never paid a dividend, instead retaining all its earnings "to provide
funds for the continued growth of the company"' At their December
1 As we will see in Chapter 19, this rationale often means, in practice, "to pro-
vide funds for the continued growth of the company's top managers' wealth."
342
Commentary on Chapter 13
31 price of $54.625, EMC's shares were trading at 103 times the
the valuation level of Emerson's stock.
What about EMC the business? Revenues grew 24% in 1999, ris-
ing to $6.7 billion. Its earnings per share soared to 92 cents from 61
cents the year before, a 51% increase. Over the five years ending in
1999, EMC's earnings had risen at a sizzling annual rate of 28.8%.
And, with everyone expecting the tidal wave of lnternet commerce to
keep rolling, the future looked even brighter. Throughout 1999, EMC's
lion by 2001-up from $5.4 billion in 1998.2 That would require aver-
age annual growth of 23%, a monstrous rate of expansion for so big a
company. But Wall Street's analysts, and most investors, were sure
EMC could do it. After all, over the previous five years, EMC had more
than doubled its revenues and better than tripled its net income.
But from 1995 through 1999, according .to Value Line, EMC's net
profit margin slid from 19.0% to 17.4%, while its return on capital
dropped from 26.8% to 21%. Although still highly profitable, EMC
was already slipping. And in October 1999, EMC acquired Data Gen-
eral Corp., which added roughly $1.1 billion to EMC's revenues that
year. Simply by subtracting the extra revenues brought in from Data
General, we can see that the volume of EMC's existing businesses
grew from $5.4 billion in 1998 to just $5.6 billion in ·1999, a rise of
only 3.6%. In other words, EMC's true growth rate was almost nil--
many companies to spend record amounts on new technology.?
2 Appearing on CNBC on'December 30, 1999, EMC's chief executive,
Michael Ruettgers, was asked by host Ron Insana whether "2000 and
beyond" would be as good as the 1990s had been. "lt actually looks like it's
accelerating" boasted Ruettgers. When Insana asked if EMC's stock was
overvalued, Ruettgers answered: “l think when you look at the opportunity
we have in front of us, it's almost unlimited. . . . So while it's hard to predict
whether these things are overpriced, there's such a major change taking
place that if you could find the winners today-and I certainly think EMC is
one of those people-you'll be well rewarded in the future."
* The “Y2K bug" or the “Year 2000 Problem" was the belief that millions of
computers worldwide would stop functioning at one second past midnight
Commentary on Chapter 13
343
A simple twist of freiGht
Unlike EMC, Expeditors International hadn't yet learned to levitate.
Aithough the firm's shares had risen 30% annually in the 1990s, much
of that big gain had come at the very end, as the stock raced to a
109.1% return in 1999. The year before, Expeditors' shares had gone
up just 9.5%, trailing the S & P 500 index by more than 19 percentage
points.
What about the business? Expeditors was growing expeditiously
indeed: Since 1995, its revenues had risen at an average annual rate
And earnings per share had grown by 25.8% annually, while dividends
had risen at a 27% annual clip. Expeditors had no long-term debt, and
its working capital had nearly doubled since 1995. According to Value
Line, Expeditors' book value per share had increased 129% and its
return on capita! had risen by more than one-third to 21%.
By any standard, Expeditors was a superb business. But the little
freight-forwarding company, with its base in Seattle and much of its
operations in Asia, was ali-but-unknown on Wall Street. Only 32% of
the shares were owned by institutional investors; in fact, Expeditors
had only 8,500 shareholders. After doubling in 1999, the stock was
priced at 39 times the net income Expeditors would earn for the year--
no longer anywhere near cheap, but well below the vertiginous valua-
tion of EmC.
The promised land?
By the end of 1999, Exodus Communications seemed to have taken
its shareholders straight to the land of milk and honey. The stock
soared 1,005.8% in 1999-enough to turn a $10,000 investment on
          s
leading Internet-stock analysts, including the hugely influential Henry
on the morning of January 1, 2000, because programmers in the 1960s and
1970s.had not thought to allow for the possibility of any date past
12/31/1999 in their operating code. U.S. companies spent billions of dol-
lars in 1999 to ensure that their computers would be "Y2K-compliant:' In the
end, at 12:00:01 A.m. on January 1, 2000, everything worked just fine.
344
Commentary on Chapter 13
Blodget of Merrill Lynch, were predicting that the stock wouid rise
another 25% to 125% over the coming year.
And best of all, in the eyes of the online traders who gorged on
Exodus's gains, was the fact that the stock had split 2-for-1 three
times during 1999. In a 2-for-1 stock split, a company doubles the.
number of its shares and halves their price-so a shareholder ends up
owning twice as many shares, each priced at half the former level.
What's so great about that? Imagine that you handed me a dime, and
I then gave you back two nickels and asked, "Don't you feel richer
now?" You would probably conclude either that I was an idiot, or that I
had mistaken you for one. And yet, in 1999's frenzy over dot-com
stocks, online traders acted exactly as if two nickels were more valu-
able than one dime. In fact, just the news that a stock would be split-
ting 2-for-1 could instantly drive its shares up 20% or more.
:Why? Because getting more shares makes people feel richer.
Someone who bought 100 shares of Exodus in January watched them
turn into 200 when the stock split in April; then those 200 turned into
400 in August; then the 400 became 800 in December. lt was'thrilling
forowning 100 in the first place. To them, that felt like “found money"-
never mind that the price per share had been cut in half with each
by the handle “givemeadollar" exulted on an online message board:
"I'm going to hold these shares until I'm 80, [because] after it splits
hundreds of times over the next years, I'll be close to becoming
CEO."5
What about Exodus the business? Graham wouldn't have touched
it with a 10-foot pole and a haz-mat suit. Exodus's revenues were
exploding-growing from $52.7 million in 1998 to $242.1 million in
1999-but it lost $130.3 million on those revenues in 1999, nearly
double its loss the year before. Exodus had $2.6 billion in total debt-
and was so starved for cash that it borrowed $971 million in the
4 For more .on the folly of stock splits, see Jason Zweig, "Splitsville, Money.
March, 2001, pp. 55-56.
§ Posting no. 3622, December 7, 1999, at the Exodus Communications
message board on the Raging Bull website (http://ragingbull.lycos.com/
mboard/boards.cgi?b0ard=EXDS&read=3622).
Commentary on Chapter 13
345
month of December alone. According to Exodus's annual report, that
new borrowing would add more than $50 million to its interest pay-
ments in the coming year. The company started 1999 with $156 mil-
lion in cash and, even after raising $1.3 billion in new financing,
finished the year with a cash balance of $1 billion-meaning that its
businesses had devoured more than $4o0 million in cash during
