### 1999. How could such a company ever pay its debts?

But, of course, online traders were fixated on how far and fast the
stock had risen, not on whether the company was healthy. “This stock,"
bragged a trader using the screen name of "Launch_Pad1999" "will just
continue climbing to infinity and beyond!" 
The absurdity of Launch_Pad's prediction-what is "beyond" infin-
ity?-is the perfect reminder of one of Graham's classic warnings.
"Today's investor," Graham tells us,
is so concerned with anticipating the future that he is already paying
handsomely for it in advance. Thus what he has projected with so much
1  'tod Aue wiy buug ou s pue uaddey Ane Ae aro pue Apns!
should fail to materialize to the degree expected he may in fact be faced
with a serious temporary and perhaps even permanent loss?"7
Where the es ended up
How did these four stocks perform after 1999?
Emerson Electric went on to gain 40.7% in 2000. Although the
shares lost money in both 2001 and 2002, they nevertheless ended
2002 less than 4% below their final price of 1999.
EMC also rose in 2000, gaining 21.7%. But then the shares lost
79.4% in 2001 and another 54.3% in 2002. That left them 88%
   e        o
billion in revenues by 2o01? EMC finished that year with. revenues of
just $7.1 billion (and a net loss of $508 million).
6 Posting no. 3910, December 15, 1999, at the Exodus Communications
message board on the Raging Bull website (http://ragingbull.lycos.com/
mboard/boards.cgi?board=EXDS&read=3910). '
7 See Graham's speech, "The New Speculation in Common Stocks," in the
Appendix, p. 563.
346
Commentary on Chapter 13
Meanwhile, as if the bear market did not even exist, Expeditors
International's shares went on to gain 22.9% in 2000, 6.5% in 2001,
and another 15.1% in 2002-finishing that year nearly 51% higher
than their price at the end of 1999.
Exodus's stock lost 55% in 2000 and 99.8% in 2001. On Septem-
ber 26, 2001, Exodus filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
Most of the company's assets were bought by Cable & Wireless, the
British telecommunications giant. Instead of delivering its sharehold-
ers to the promised land, Exodus left them exiled in the wilderness. As
of early 2003, the last trade in Exodus's stock was at one penny a
share.
